--- PAGE 60 ---
 
We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. For example, 
if we do not adopt a new or revised accounting standard, our future results of operations may not be comparable to the results of 
operations of certain other companies in our industry that have adopted such standards. If some investors find our common stock less 
attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile.
Risks Related to Information Technology and Intellectual Property
We rely on information technology systems and any inadequacy, failure, interruption or security breaches of those systems may 
harm our ability to effectively operate our business.
We are dependent on various information technology systems, including, but not limited to, networks, applications and 
outsourced services in connection with the operation of our business. A failure of our information technology systems to perform as we 
anticipate could disrupt our business and result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and loss of sales, causing our business to 
suffer. Further, because of our remote work policies, information that is normally protected, including company confidential 
information, may be less secure and we may be more vulnerable to cyberattacks. In addition, while we have not experienced a material 
information security breach in the last three years, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption 
from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, viruses and security breaches. Any such 
damage or interruption could have an adverse effect on our business.
A cybersecurity incident or other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers 
and consumers.
We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other 
online activities to connect with our crew members, farmers, suppliers, co-manufacturers, distributors, customers and consumers. Such 
uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breaches, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of 
information. Cybersecurity incidents are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, with third-party phishing and social 
engineering attacks in particular increasing in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. Our business involves sensitive information 
and intellectual property, including customers’, distributors’ and suppliers’ information, private information about crew members and 
financial and strategic information about us and our business partners. Further, as we pursue new initiatives that improve our operations 
and cost structure, we also intend to expand and improve our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and 
corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with new initiatives, we 
may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks.
We maintain an online ordering platform for certain of our products, and in connection with this platform, our third-party service 
providers may collect, store, process, and use personal and payment information and other customer and consumer data. Any breach of 
our data security or that of our service providers could result in an unauthorized release or transfer of information or the loss of 
valuable business data or cause a disruption in our business. Any such breach could result in harm to our brand and exposure to losses, 
litigation or regulatory proceedings.
While we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident 
response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of sensitive information or 
intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we 
rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers and distributors, 
potential liability and competitive disadvantage all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results 
of operations.
Such risks may be heightened by the fact that a large portion of our existing and newly hired crew members is working remotely 
on a permanent basis. Technologies and security systems in place at our crew members’ homes may be less secure than those used in a 
physical office, and while we have implemented controls and safeguards to help protect our systems as our crew members work from 
home, we may nevertheless be subject to increased cybersecurity risk, which could expose us to risks of data or financial loss, resulting 
in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
The loss of any registered trademark or other intellectual property could enable other companies to compete more effectively with 
us.
We utilize intellectual property in our business. Our trademarks are valuable assets that reinforce our brand and consumers’ 
favorable perception of our products. We have invested a significant amount of money in establishing and promoting our trademarked 
brands. We also rely on unpatented proprietary expertise and copyright protection to develop and maintain our competitive position. 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 60/141

--- PAGE 61 ---
Our continued success depends, to a significant degree, upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property, including our 
trademarks and copyrights.
40
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 61/141

--- PAGE 62 ---
 
We rely on confidentiality agreements and trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property rights. Our 
confidentiality agreements with our crew members and certain of our consultants, contract employees, suppliers and independent 
contractors, including some of our co-manufacturers who use our formulations to manufacture our products, generally require that all 
information made known to them be kept strictly confidential. Further, some of our formulations have been developed by or with our 
suppliers and co-manufacturers. As a result, we may not be able to prevent others from using similar formulations.
We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights are adequate, that our intellectual 
property rights can be successfully defended and asserted in the future or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate any 
such rights. In addition, our trademark rights and related registrations may be challenged in the future and could be canceled or 
narrowed. Failure to protect our trademark rights could prevent us in the future from challenging third parties who use names and logos 
similar to our trademarks, which may in turn cause consumer confusion or negatively affect consumers’ perception of our brand and 
products. Moreover, intellectual property disputes and proceedings and infringement claims may result in a significant distraction for 
management and significant expense, which may not be recoverable regardless of whether we are successful. Such proceedings may be 
protracted with no certainty of success, and an adverse outcome could subject us to liabilities, force us to cease use of certain 
trademarks or other intellectual property or force us to enter into licenses with others. Any one of these occurrences may have an 
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Other General Risks
Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our common stock may decline.
The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may fluctuate or decline substantially as a result of a variety of 
factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section.
Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, regulatory and market conditions, may also 
negatively impact the market price of our common stock, particularly in light of uncertainties surrounding inflation, geopolitical 
tensions, and public health pandemics such as COVID-19 and related impacts.
Insiders have substantial control over us and are able to influence corporate matters.
Based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 25, 2022, our directors, and officers hold, in the aggregate, 
approximately 26% of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over all 
matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a 
merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit stockholders’ ability to influence 
corporate matters, including, but not limited to, delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us.
Sales of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.
Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, 
could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity 
securities. Many of our existing equity holders have substantial unrecognized gains on the value of the equity they hold, and therefore 
they may take steps to sell their shares or otherwise secure the unrecognized gains on those shares. We are unable to predict the timing 
of or the effect that such sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock.
In addition, as of December 25, 2022, there were 5,139,709 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding 
stock options or subject to vesting of outstanding restricted stock awards. We have registered all of the shares of common stock issuable 
upon exercise of outstanding stock options, vesting of outstanding restricted stock awards or other equity incentives we may grant in 
the future, for public resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The shares of common stock will 
become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent such options are exercised, subject to compliance with applicable securities 
laws.
Further, based on shares outstanding as of  December 25, 2022, holders of approximately 13.5 million shares of our capital stock 
and certain shares that may be issued in the future upon exercise or vesting of outstanding equity awards, have rights, subject to some 
conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration 
statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders.
41
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 62/141

--- PAGE 63 ---
 
Our issuance of additional capital stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our equity incentive plans or 
otherwise will dilute all other stockholders.
We expect to issue additional capital stock in the future that will result in dilution to all other stockholders. We expect to grant 
equity awards to employees, directors and consultants under our equity incentive plans. We may also raise capital through equity 
financings in the future. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or make investments in companies and issue equity securities 
to pay for any such acquisition or investment. Any such issuances of additional capital stock may cause stockholders to experience 
significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock to decline.
If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable or inaccurate research about our business, the 
market price and trading volume of our common stock could decline.
The market price and trading volume of our common stock is heavily influenced by the way analysts interpret our financial 
information and other disclosures. We do not have control over these analysts. If few securities analysts commence coverage of us, or if 
industry analysts cease coverage of us, our stock price would be negatively affected. If securities or industry analysts do not publish 
research or reports about our business, downgrade our common stock or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price 
would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our 
common stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price to decline and could decrease the trading volume of our common 
stock.
We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.
While we have previously paid cash dividends on our capital stock, we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our capital 
stock in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. 
Accordingly, you may need to rely on sales of our common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to 
realize any future gains on your investment.
We may be subject to significant liability that is not covered by insurance. 
Although we believe that the extent of our insurance coverage is consistent with industry practice, any claim under our insurance 
policies may be subject to certain exceptions, may not be honored fully, in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not have purchased 
sufficient insurance to cover all losses incurred. If we were to incur substantial liabilities or if our business operations were interrupted 
for a substantial period of time, we could incur costs and suffer losses. Such inventory and business interruption losses may not be 
covered by our insurance policies. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would 
adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. Additionally, in the future, insurance coverage may not be available to us at 
commercially acceptable premiums, or at all.
Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more 
difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our 
common stock.
Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and provisions of 
Delaware law applicable to us as a public benefit corporation, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or 
changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include 
provisions that:
• authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred 
stock that may be senior to our common stock with terms, rights and preferences determined by our board of directors;
• require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by 
written consent;
• specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairperson of our 
board of directors, or our chief executive officer;
• establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including 
proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;
• establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving three-year staggered terms;
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 63/141

--- PAGE 64 ---
• prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors;
42
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 64/141

--- PAGE 65 ---
 
• provide that our directors may be removed for cause only upon the vote of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding shares of 
voting stock; and
• provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though 
less than a quorum.
These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by 
making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members 
of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the 
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or DGCL, which generally, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware 
corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three 
years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder.
Also, as a public benefit corporation, our board of directors is required by the DCGL to manage or direct our business and affairs 
in a manner that balances the pecuniary interests of our stockholders, the best interests of those materially affected by our conduct, and 
the specific public benefits identified in our certificate of incorporation. Additionally, pursuant to our amended and restated certificate 
of incorporation, a vote of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding shares of voting stock is required for matters directly or indirectly 
amending or removing our public benefit purpose, or to effect a merger or consolidation involving stock consideration with an entity 
that is not a public benefit corporation with an identical public benefit to ours. Such provisions could also limit the price that our 
investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, and they could deter potential acquirers of our company, 
thereby reducing the likelihood that holders of our common stock would receive a premium for your shares of our common stock in an 
acquisition.
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and, with respect 
to certain matters, the federal district courts of the United States of America as the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes 
between us and our stockholders, which could restrict our stockholders’ ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or 
our directors, officers, or employees.
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if and 
only if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware lacks subject matter jurisdiction, any state court located within the State of 
Delaware or, if and only if all such state courts lack subject matter jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) is 
the exclusive forum for certain actions or proceedings under Delaware law, statutory or common law, including: any derivative action 
or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a breach of a fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against us arising 
pursuant to the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; any action as to 
which the DCGL confers jurisdiction to the court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; or any action asserting a claim against us that 
is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The provisions would not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or any other claim for which federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. 
Furthermore, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all such Securities Act 
actions. Accordingly, both state and federal courts have jurisdiction to entertain such claims. To prevent having to litigate claims in 
multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations our amended and 
restated certificate of incorporation provides that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum 
for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act.
These choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for 
disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and 
other employees. While Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may 
nevertheless seek to bring such a claim arising under the Securities Act against us and our directors, officers or other employees in a 
venue other than in the federal district courts of the United States of America. In such instance, we would expect our efforts to defend 
the validity and enforceability of such provisions may require further significant additional costs associated with resolving the dispute 
in other jurisdictions and there can be no assurance that the provisions will be enforced by a court in those other jurisdictions, any of 
which could seriously harm our business.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
Not applicable.
43
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 65/141

--- PAGE 66 ---
 
Item 2. Properties
We lease our corporate headquarters located at 3601 South Congress Avenue, Austin, Texas, where we occupy approximately 
9,100 square feet of office space pursuant to a lease that expires in April 2026, with an option to extend this lease for a period of five 
years. We own our shell egg processing facility in Springfield, Missouri totaling approximately 153,000 square feet, which we refer to 
as Egg Central Station. We also lease approximately 92,000 square feet of warehouse space in Springfield, Missouri, which provides 
access to 10,000 pallet spaces pursuant to a lease that expires in September 2023. While we believe that our current facilities are 
suitable and adequate to meet our current needs, we have recently announced that we have begun the design and site selection process 
for our next egg packing center.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Although the outcome of 
these and other claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe the ultimate resolution of the current matters will have a 
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
44
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 66/141

--- PAGE 67 ---
 
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Market Information
Our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Market on July 31, 2020, under the symbol “VITL.” Prior to that time, 
there was no public market for our common stock. 
Holders of Record
As of March 6, 2023, we had 11 holders of record of our common stock. Certain shares are held in “street” name and 
accordingly, the number of beneficial owners of such shares is not known or included in the foregoing number. This number of holders 
of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities.
Dividend Policy
We declared cash dividends on our common stock in June 2013 totaling approximately $0.3 million. We cannot provide any 
assurance that we will declare or pay cash dividends on our capital stock in the future. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our 
capital stock may be subject to limitations under the terms of our credit facility agreement with PNC Bank, National Association, or the 
Credit Facility, or other credit facilities we may enter into from time to time. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements 
included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information on the Credit Facility. We currently intend to retain all available 
funds and future earnings, if any, to fund the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate declaring or paying 
any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination regarding the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will 
be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating 
results, contractual restrictions (including in our then-existing debt arrangements), capital requirements, business prospects and other 
factors our board of directors may deem relevant. 
Comparative Stock Performance Graph
The following performance graph shows a comparison from July 31, 2020 (the date our common stock commenced trading on 
the Nasdaq Global Market) through December 25, 2022, of the cumulative total return for our common stock, the Nasdaq Composite 
Index and the Nasdaq US Smart Food & Beverage Index.
 
 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 67/141

--- PAGE 68 ---
45
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 68/141

--- PAGE 69 ---
 
The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 on July 31, 2020. The comparisons in the graph are not intended to forecast or 
be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. The performance graph and related information shall not be deemed 
“soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under 
the Securities Act or Exchange Act. 
Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities
None. 
Use of Proceeds
Use of Proceeds from the IPO
On August 4, 2020, we completed our IPO, in which we issued and sold 5,040,323 shares of our common stock and certain of 
our selling stockholders offered and sold 5,659,250 shares of our common stock at a price to the public of $22.00 per share. We 
received net proceeds from the IPO of approximately $99.7 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $7.8 
million and offering expenses of $3.4 million. None of the expenses associated with the IPO were paid to directors, officers, persons 
owning 10% or more of any class of equity securities, or to their associates. Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, Morgan Stanley and Credit 
Suisse Securities (USA) LLC acted as joint lead bookrunning managers for the IPO. Jefferies, BMO Capital Markets Corp. and Stifel, 
Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated acted as bookrunning managers for the IPO.
Shares of our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Market on July 31, 2020. The offer and sale of the shares were 
registered under the Securities Act on Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-239772), which was declared 
effective on July 30, 2020.
There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from our IPO as described in this Annual Report. We invested 
the funds received in cash equivalents and other marketable securities in accordance with our investment policy. As of December 25, 
2022, we have used an aggregate of $34.8 million of the IPO proceeds, including $7.3 million to pay off our term loan, $1.9 million to 
pay off our equipment loan in 2020 and $25.6 million for capital expenditures. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements 
included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information on the Credit Facility.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
None.
Item 6. [Reserved]
 
46
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 69/141

--- PAGE 70 ---
 
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ 
materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in Part I, Item 
1A, “Risk Factors,” and “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The 
following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited 
financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Overview
Our mission is to bring ethical food to the table, and we are disrupting the U.S. food system by developing a framework that 
challenges the norms of the incumbent food model, allowing us to bring high-quality products from our network of family farms to a 
national audience. This framework has enabled us to become the leading U.S. brand of pasture-raised eggs and the second largest U.S. 
egg brand by retail dollar sales. Our ethics are exemplified by our focus on animal welfare and sustainable farming practices. We 
believe our standards produce happy hens with varied diets, which produce better eggs. There is a seismic shift in consumer demand for 
natural, traceable, clean-label, great-tasting and nutritious foods. Supported by a steadfast adherence to the values on which we were 
founded, we have designed our brand and products to appeal to this consumer movement.
Our purpose is rooted in a commitment to Conscious Capitalism, which prioritizes the long-term benefits of each of our 
stakeholders (farmers and suppliers, customers and consumers, communities and the environment, crew members and stockholders). 
We make decisions based on what’s sustainable for all our stakeholders. Our collective sustainable business practices will enable us to 
fulfill our purpose of improving the lives of people, animals, and the planet through food, now and long into the future. For us, it is not 
about short-term outcomes or a trade-off between purpose and profit. We are fierce business competitors who believe that prioritizing 
the long-term viability of all stakeholders will produce stronger outcomes, for everyone, over time. These principles guide our day-to-
day operations and, we believe, help us deliver a more sustainable and successful business. Our approach has been validated by our 
financial performance and recertification as a Certified B Corporation in January 2022, a certification reserved for businesses that 
balance profit and purpose to meet the highest verified standards of social and environmental performance, public transparency and 
legal accountability.
We source our products from a network of over 300 family farms. We have strategically designed our supply chain to ensure high 
production standards and optimal year-round operation. We are motivated by the positive impact we have on rural communities and 
enjoy a strong relationship and reputation with our network of farmers.
We primarily work with our farms pursuant to buy-sell contracts. Under these arrangements, the farmer is responsible for all of 
the working capital and investments required to produce the eggs and manage the farm, including purchasing the birds and feed supply. 
We are contractually obligated to purchase all of the eggs produced by the farmer during the term of the contract at an agreed-upon 
price that depends upon pallet weight and is indexed quarterly in arrears for changes in feed cost.
We believe we are a strategic and valuable partner to retailers. We have continued to command premium prices for our products, 
including our shell eggs. Our loyal and growing consumer base has fueled the expansion of our brand from the natural channel to the 
mainstream channel. We believe the success of our brand demonstrates that consumers are demanding premium products that meet a 
higher ethical standard of food production. We have a strong presence at Kroger, Sprouts, Target and Whole Foods, and we also sell our 
products at Albertsons, Publix and Walmart. We offer 25 retail stock keeping units, or SKUs through a multi-channel retail distribution 
network. We believe we have significant room for growth within the retail and foodservice channels through growing brand awareness, 
gaining additional points of distribution and new product innovation.
Our shell eggs are collected from farmers by a third-party freight carrier and placed in cold storage until we pack them for 
shipping to our customers at our state-of-the-art shell egg processing facility, Egg Central Station. Egg Central Station is approximately 
153,000 square feet and utilizes highly automated equipment to grade and package our shell egg products. Egg Central Station is 
capable of packing approximately six million eggs per day and has achieved Safe Quality Food, or SQF Good rating, the highest level 
of such certification from the Global Food Safety Initiative. In addition, as of January 2020, Egg Central Station is the only egg facility 
to receive, and we are one of only six companies globally to have received, the SQFI Select Site certification.
47
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 70/141

--- PAGE 71 ---
 
Our products are distributed through a broker-distributor-retailer network whereby brokers represent our products to distributors 
and retailers who will in turn sell our products to consumers. We serve the majority of natural channel customers through food 
distributors, such as UNFI, US Foods and KeHE, which purchase, store, sell and deliver our products to Whole Foods (UNFI and US 
Foods) and Sprouts (KeHE). We serve mainstream retailers by arranging for delivery of our products directly through their distribution 
centers. We also leverage distributor relationships to fulfill orders for certain independent grocers and other customers. UNFI, US 
Foods and KeHE sales as a percentage of the Company's net revenue is presented below:
  Fiscal Year Ended
  December 25,2022  December 26,2021
UNFI  26%  18%
US Foods  *  14%
KeHE  *  10%
* less than 10%     
The increase in the percentage of net revenue for UNFI for fiscal 2022 is due to a net shift in the Company’s distribution 
channels away from US Foods during fiscal 2021. The decrease in percentage of net revenue for KeHE is due to general shifts in the 
Company's distribution channels.
We have experienced consistent sales growth. We had net revenue of $362.1 million and $260.9 million, net income of $1.2 
million and $2.4 million, and Adjusted EBITDA of $16.2 million and $8.0 million in the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022 and 
December 26, 2021, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section titled “—Non-GAAP Financial 
Measures—Adjusted EBITDA” below for the definition of Adjusted EBITDA, as well as a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net 
income, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP.
Known Trends, Events and Uncertainties
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
Since the initial outbreaks of HPAI in early 2022, we have been closely following the progression of the virus and working with 
our farmers, veterinarians, government health officials and animal welfare auditors to ensure that our flocks are kept as safe as possible. 
To date, we have experienced outbreaks at two of our farms, one located in Missouri and one in Tennessee. While we have not 
experienced material disruptions to our egg supply due to HPAI outbreaks, if a substantial portion of our farms or production facilities 
were affected, this could materially and negatively affect our supply chain and operating results. Additionally, HPAI has resulted in 
supply shortages and price increases across the egg market. We are confident in the measures we have taken to reduce the risk of HPAI 
on our farms and production facilities, as well as our ability to mitigate impacts on supply. However, given continued uncertainty about 
future outbreaks and governmental responses to such outbreaks, we cannot predict the ultimate impact that HPAI will have on our 
business.
Inflation and Economic Uncertainties
The recent trends towards rising inflation may also materially affect our business and corresponding financial position and cash 
flows. Inflationary factors, such as increases in the cost of materials and supplies, interest rates and overhead costs, may adversely 
affect our operating results. Rising interest rates also present a recent challenge impacting the U.S. economy and could make it more 
difficult for us to obtain traditional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. Additionally, the general consensus among 
economists suggests that we should expect a higher recession risk to continue over the next year, which, together with the foregoing, 
could result in further economic uncertainty and volatility in the capital markets in the near term, and could negatively affect our 
operations. Furthermore, such economic conditions have produced downward pressure on share prices. We have experienced and may 
continue to experience increases in our operating costs, including our labor costs and research and development costs, due to supply 
chain constraints, consequences associated with COVID-19 and the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, and employee 
availability and wage increases, which may result in additional stress on the Company’s working capital resources. We work closely 
with our farmers, suppliers and third-party manufacturers to manage our supply chain activities and mitigate potential disruptions to 
our product supplies as a result of supply chain disruptions associated with such uncertainties. We currently expect to have an adequate 
supply of eggs, butter, packaging, and freight to meet anticipated demand through mid-2023, as well as adequate capacity for 
packaging and processing our eggs.
48
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 71/141

--- PAGE 72 ---
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview
With cash and cash equivalents of $12.9 million as of December 25, 2022 and access to additional funds held as investment 
securities and available borrowing under our credit facility agreement with PNC Bank, National Association, or the Credit Facility, we 
anticipate having sufficient liquidity to make investments in our business to support our long-term growth strategy. We expect that our 
cash and cash equivalents as of December 25, 2022, together with cash provided by our operating activities and availability of 
borrowings under our existing Credit Facility, will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses for at least the next 12 months and to 
make investments in our business in support of our long-term growth strategy.
Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our pace of new and existing customer growth, our 
investments in innovation, our investments in acquisitions or other growth opportunities, our investments in partnerships and 
unexplored channels and ongoing costs associated with expansions of our production capacity. We may be required to seek additional 
equity or debt financing. However, a significant disruption of global financial markets (including a disruption due to public health 
pandemics, geopolitical tensions and wars, inflation or other factors) may result in our inability to access additional capital, which 
could in the future negatively affect our operations. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such 
financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our 
operations and invest in continued innovation and product expansion, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm 
our business, operations and results of operations. For additional information, see the section titled "Liquidity and Capital Resources" 
below.
Our Fiscal Year
We report on a 52-53-week fiscal year, ending on the last Sunday in December, effective beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 
2018. In a 52-53-week fiscal year, each fiscal quarter consists of 13 weeks. The additional week in a 53-week fiscal year is added to the 
fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks. Our first 53-week fiscal year will be this year, fiscal 2023, which we expect to 
begin on December 26, 2022 and end on December 31, 2023. See “Nature of the Business and Basis of Presentation” in Note 1 to our 
audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional details related to our fiscal calendar.
Key Factors Affecting Our Business
We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon many factors. While each of these factors 
presents significant opportunities for us, they also pose important challenges that we must successfully address to enable us to sustain 
the growth of our business and improve our results of operations.
Expand Household Penetration
We have positioned our brand to capitalize on growing consumer interest in natural, clean-label, traceable, ethical, great-tasting 
and nutritious foods. We believe there is substantial opportunity to grow our consumer base and increase the velocity at which 
households purchase our products. U.S. household penetration for the shell egg category is approximately 98%, while the household 
penetration for our shell eggs is approximately 7.0%. We intend to increase household penetration by continuing to invest significantly 
in sales and marketing to educate consumers about our brand, our values and the premium quality of our products. We believe these 
efforts will educate consumers on the attractive attributes of our products, generate further demand for our products and ultimately 
expand our consumer base. Our ability to attract new consumers will depend, among other things, on the perceived value and quality of 
our products, the offerings of our competitors and the effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Our performance depends significantly on 
factors that may affect the level and pattern of consumer spending in the U.S. natural food market in which we operate. Such factors 
include consumer preference, consumer confidence, consumer income, consumer perception of the safety and quality of our products 
and shifts in the perceived value for our products relative to alternatives.
49
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 72/141

--- PAGE 73 ---
 
Grow Within the Retail Channel
We believe that our ability to increase the number of customers that sell our products to consumers is an indicator of our market 
penetration and our future business opportunities. We define our customers as the entities that sell our products to consumers. With 
certain of our retail customers, like Whole Foods, we sell our products through distributors. We are not able to precisely attribute our 
net revenue to a specific retailer for products sold through such channels. We rely on third-party data to calculate the portion of retail 
sales attributable to such retailers, but this data is inherently imprecise because it is based on gross sales generated by our products sold 
at retailers, without accounting for price concessions, promotional activities or chargebacks, and because it measures retail sales for 
only the portion of our retailers serviced through distributors. Based on this third-party data and internal analysis, Whole Foods 
accounted for approximately 23% and 29% of our retail sales for the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022 and December 26, 2021, 
respectively. While the amount of our retail sales to Whole Foods increased in real terms in the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022, 
the percentage of our net revenue attributable to Whole Foods declined in these periods as we added new customers and expanded 
distribution to existing customers.
As of December 2022, there were more than 22,000 stores selling our products. We expect the retail channel to be our largest 
source of net revenue for the foreseeable future. By capturing greater shelf space, driving higher product velocities and increasing our 
SKU count, we believe there is meaningful runway for further growth with existing retail customers. Additionally, we believe there is 
significant opportunity to gain incremental stores from existing customers as well as by adding new retail customers. We also believe 
there is significant further long-term opportunity in additional distribution channels, including the convenience, drugstore, club, 
military and international markets. Our ability to execute on this strategy will increase our opportunities for incremental sales to 
consumers, and we also believe this growth will allow for margin expansion. To accomplish these objectives, we intend to continue 
leveraging consumer awareness of and demand for our brand, offering targeted sales incentives to our customers and utilizing 
customer-specific marketing tactics. Our ability to grow within the retail channel will depend on a number of factors, such as our 
customers’ satisfaction with the sales, product velocities and profitability of our products.
Expand Footprint Across Foodservice
We believe there is significant demand for our products in the foodservice channel since we offer versatile ingredients with high 
menu penetrations across all commercial and non-commercial operator segments. We see considerable opportunity to continue to grow 
the channel in the medium- to long-term with our two-pronged sales approach to values-aligned foodservice operators and their 
distributors. We are working with Waypoint, a foodservice sales and marketing agency in the consumer-packaged goods industry, to 
increase our category share in broad-line distribution and to get on national and regional restaurant chain menus.
We believe that most U.S. consumers' food preferences are driven primarily by what they encounter on restaurant menus, so we 
are also leveraging foodservice as a critical consumer touchpoint to drive brand awareness and build trust. We are investing in co-
marketing to reach new households. We believe co-branding is mutually beneficial to us and foodservice operators as we believe it 
helps to differentiate their brands, enhance their perceived customer value and drive repeat traffic.
A multi-unit example from our successful foodservice program is True Food Kitchen, an award-winning restaurant brand and a 
pioneer of wellness-driven dining with 43 locations across the United States, that shares our values for improving the lives of people, 
animals, and the planet through ethically produced food. We have launched similar relationships with national chains, including 
Hopdoddy Burger Bar and Original ChopShop. Additionally, we have regional chain collaborations in all four or our U.S. sales 
territories. Several examples include:
• Tacodeli, which sells breakfast tacos made exclusively with our shell eggs across restaurant locations and points of 
distribution, such as coffee shops and farmers' market stands, across Texas;
• Black Seed Bagels, a bagel brand with locations across the New York metropolitan area;
• King David Tacos, which sells breakfast tacos made exclusively with our eggs at a brick-and-mortar location, multiple cart 
locations and over 70 retail partners in the New York City area;
• Pura Vida, a fresh all-day concept in the South Florida area;
• Cafe Patachou, a breakfast and lunch restaurant chain based in the Indianapolis, Indiana area;
• Blue Plate Restaurant Company, a casual dining group in the Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota area;
• Moe's Broadway Bagel, an East Coast-style family-run bagel chain in the Denver and Boulder Colorado area
50
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 73/141

--- PAGE 74 ---
 
Expand Our Product Offerings
We intend to continue to strengthen our product offerings by investing in innovation in new and existing categories. We have a 
history of product introductions and intend to continue to innovate by introducing new products from time to time. Eggs and egg-
related products generated $339.2 million, or approximately 94%, of net revenue in fiscal 2022. We expect eggs and egg-related 
products will be our largest source of net revenue for the foreseeable future. We believe that investments in innovation will contribute 
to our long-term growth, including by reinforcing our efforts to increase household penetration. Our ability to successfully develop, 
market and sell new products will depend on a variety of factors, including the availability of capital to invest in innovation, as well as 
changing consumer preferences and demand for food products.
Key Components of Results of Operations
Net Revenue
We generate net revenue primarily from sales of our products, including eggs and butter, to our customers, which include natural 
retailers, mainstream retailers and foodservice customers. We sell our products to customers on a purchase-order basis. We serve the 
majority of our natural channel customers and certain independent grocers and other customers through food distributors, which 
purchase, store, sell and deliver our products to these customers.
We periodically offer sales incentives to our customers, including rebates, temporary price reductions, off-invoice discounts, 
retailer advertisements, product coupons and other trade activities. We record a provision for sales incentives at the later of the date at 
which the related revenue is recognized or when the sales incentive is offered. At the end of each accounting period, we recognize a 
liability for an estimated promotional allowance reserve. We periodically provide credits or discounts to our customers in the event that 
products do not conform to customer expectations upon delivery or expire at a customer’s site. We treat these credits and discounts as a 
reduction of the sales price of the related transaction at the time of sale. We anticipate that these promotional activities, credits and 
discounts could impact our net revenue and that changes in such activities could impact period-over-period results.
Our shell eggs are sold to consumers at a premium price point, and when prices for commodity shell eggs fall relative to the price 
of our shell eggs (including due to any price increases we may implement), price-sensitive consumers may choose to purchase 
commodity shell eggs offered by our competitors instead of our eggs. As a result, low commodity shell egg prices may adversely affect 
our net revenue. For example, we increased prices on certain of our products in January 2022, May 2022 and January 2023. While we 
have not seen significant decreases in sales volume due to previous price increases, if we further increase prices to offset higher 
commodity prices or other costs, we could experience lower demand for our products, decreased ability to attract new customers and 
lower sales volumes. Net revenue may also vary from period to period depending on the purchase orders we receive, the volume and 
mix of our products sold, and the channels through which our products are sold.
Selling, General and Administrative
Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of broker and contractor fees for sales and marketing, as well as 
personnel costs for sales and marketing, finance, human resources and other administrative functions, including salaries, benefits, 
bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and sales commissions. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include 
advertising and digital media costs, agency fees, travel and entertainment costs, and costs associated with consumer promotions, 
product samples, sales aids incurred to acquire new customers, retain existing customers and build our brand awareness, overhead costs 
for facilities, including associated depreciation and amortization expenses, and information technology-related expenses.
Shipping and Distribution
Shipping and distribution expenses consist primarily of costs related to third-party freight for our products. We expect shipping 
and distribution expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the medium-to-long term as we continue to scale our business.
51
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 74/141

--- PAGE 75 ---
 
Results of Operations
The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented (in thousands):
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
  (in thousands)  
Net revenue  $ 362,050  $ 260,901 
Cost of goods sold   252,606   178,002 
Gross profit   109,444   82,899 
Operating expenses:       
Selling, general and administrative   77,236   57,868 
Shipping and distribution   30,104   24,979 
Total operating expenses   107,340   82,847 
Income from operations   2,104   52 
Other income (expense), net:       
Interest expense   (114)   (52)
Interest income   992   381 
Other income (expense), net   (151)   (27)
Total other income (expense), net   727   302 
Net income before income taxes   2,831   354 
Income tax provision (benefit)   1,601   (2,028)
Net income   1,230   2,382 
Less: Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling
   interests   (21)   (47)
Net income attributable to Vital Farms, Inc.
   stockholders  $ 1,251  $ 2,429 
 
(1) Includes stock-based compensation expense of $5,852 and $4,307 in selling, general and administrative for the fiscal years ended 2022 and 2021, respectively, and $188 and $133 in cost of goods sold for the fiscal years then ended, respectively.
52
(1)
(1)
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 75/141

--- PAGE 76 ---
 
The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the 
periods presented:
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
  Amount   
% ofRevenue   Amount   
% ofRevenue  
  (dollars in thousands)  
Net revenue  $ 362,050   100% $ 260,901   100%
Cost of goods sold   252,606   70%  178,002   68%
Gross profit   109,444   30%  82,899   32%
Operating expenses:             
Selling, general and administrative   77,236   21%  57,868   22%
Shipping and distribution   30,104   8%  24,979   10%
Total operating expenses   107,340   30%  82,847   32%
Income from operations   2,104   1%  52   — 
Other income (expense), net:             
Interest expense   (114)  —   (52)  — 
Interest income   992   —   381   — 
Other income (expense), net   (151)  —   (27)  — 
Total other income (expense), net   727   —   302   — 
Net income before income taxes   2,831   1%  354   — 
Income tax provision (benefit)   1,601   —   (2,028)  (1)%
Net income   1,230   —   2,382   1%
Less: Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling
   interests   (21)  —   (47)  — 
Net income attributable to Vital Farms, Inc.
   stockholders  $ 1,251   —  $ 2,429   1%
Fiscal Year Ended December 25, 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended December 26, 2021
Net Revenue
 
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Net revenue  $ 362,050  $ 260,901  $ 101,149   39%
The increase in net revenue of $101.1 million, or 39%, was primarily driven by volume-related increases of $74.4 million and 
price increases of $26.8 million. Additionally, there was an increase in egg-related product sales of $99.2 million and an increase in 
butter-related product sales of $1.9 million. The increases in egg and butter-related sales were primarily due to volume increases to our 
distributors as well as new distributions to new and existing customers. Net revenue from sales through our retail channel was $348.9 
million and $256.5 million for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Gross Profit and Gross Margin
 
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Gross profit  $ 109,444  $ 82,899  $ 26,545   32%
Gross margin   30%  32%      
 
53
(1)
(1)
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 76/141

--- PAGE 77 ---
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 77/141

--- PAGE 78 ---
 
 The increase in gross profit of $26.5 million, or 32%, was driven by higher net revenue generated during the fiscal year ended 
December 25, 2022. The decrease in gross margin during the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022 as compared to the fiscal year ended 
December 26, 2021 was primarily driven by an increase in input costs (including costs of organic feed and increased farmer pay) across 
our shell egg and butter businesses, increases in packaging costs and increases in transportation costs. Increased pricing on our organic 
shell egg and butter businesses at the end of January 2022, along with additional pricing increases across the entire portfolio in May 
2022, partially offset the input cost headwinds.
Operating Expenses
Selling, General and Administrative
 
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Selling, general and administrative  $ 77,236  $ 57,868  $ 19,368   33%
Percentage of net revenue   21%  22%      
Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased by $19.4 million in fiscal 2022, with such expenses accounting for 21% 
of net revenue. The dollar growth in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily driven by:
• an increase of $13.0 million in employee-related costs, including stock-based compensation, driven by an overall increase in 
employee headcount to support our operations and public company status;
• an increase of $3.5 million in brokerage-related and selling-related expenses due to expansion of the business;
• an increase of $1.8 million in marketing-related expenses related to continued investment in brand and product marketing; and
• an increase of $1.0 million in technology and software related expenses to support increased operations and employee 
headcount.
Shipping and Distribution
 
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Shipping and distribution  $ 30,104  $ 24,979  $ 5,125   21%
Percentage of net revenue   8%  10%      
The increase in shipping and distribution expenses of $5.1 million, or 21%, was driven by higher sales volumes and freight rates. 
We are beginning to see freight rates stabilize due to a combination of steadying line haul rates and internal operational efficiency.
Interest Income
 
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Interest income  $ 992  $ 381  $ 611   160%
The increase of $611,000 in interest income, or 160%, was primarily driven by higher interest income in the fiscal year ended 
December 25, 2022 on our available-for-sale securities portfolio.
54
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 78/141

--- PAGE 79 ---
 
Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes
 
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Income tax provision (benefit)  $ 1,601  $ (2,028) $ 3,629   179%
Percentage of net revenue   0%  (1)%      
The change in income tax provision (benefit) of $3.6 million, or 179%, was primarily driven by higher pre-tax income in 2022 
and favorable tax benefits from stock option exercises in the prior year which have not recurred at the same levels during the fiscal year 
ended December 25, 2022.
Fiscal Year Ended December 26, 2021 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 2020
For the discussion of the financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2021 compared to 
the fiscal year ended December 27, 2020, refer to “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations—Components of Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2021, 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2022.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Adjusted EBITDA
We report our financial results in accordance with GAAP. However, management believes that Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP 
financial measure, provides investors with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. 
We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss), adjusted to exclude:
• Depreciation and amortization;
• Stock-based compensation expense;
• Costs related to the discontinuation of our convenient breakfast product line;
• Costs related to the dissolution of the Ovabrite, Inc. variable interest entity;
• Benefit or provision for income taxes, as applicable;
• Interest expense;
• Change in fair value of contingent consideration; and
• Interest income.
Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure that is not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. We believe that 
Adjusted EBITDA, when taken together with our financial results presented in accordance with GAAP, provides meaningful 
supplemental information regarding our operating performance and facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating 
performance on a more consistent basis by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations or 
outlook. In particular, we believe that the use of Adjusted EBITDA is helpful to our investors as it is a measure used by management in 
assessing the health of our business, determining incentive compensation and evaluating our operating performance, as well as for 
internal planning and forecasting purposes.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not 
be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Some of the limitations of 
Adjusted EBITDA include the following:
• It does not properly reflect capital commitments to be paid in the future;
• Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the underlying assets may need to be replaced, and Adjusted 
EBITDA does not reflect these capital expenditures;
• It does not consider the impact of stock-based compensation expense, as such expenses in any specific period may not 
directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations and can vary significantly between periods as a 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 79/141

--- PAGE 80 ---
result of the timing of grants of new stock-based awards;
55
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 80/141

--- PAGE 81 ---
 
• It does not include the costs related to the discontinuation of our convenient breakfast product line as these costs are 
infrequent, unusual and we do not anticipate that we will incur similar significant costs for product exits in the foreseeable 
future;
• It does not reflect the dissolution of the Ovabrite, Inc. variable interest entity due to the infrequent nature of this transaction 
and we do not expect to experience similar dissolutions in the foreseeable future;
• It does not reflect other non-operating expenses, including interest expense;
• It does not consider the impact of any contingent consideration liability valuation adjustments; and
• It does not reflect tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us.
In addition, our use of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because they 
may not calculate Adjusted EBITDA in the same manner, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these 
limitations, when evaluating our performance, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial measures, including 
our net income and other results stated in accordance with GAAP.
The following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable financial measure 
stated in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented:
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
  (in thousands)  
Net income  $ 1,230  $ 2,382 
Depreciation and amortization   5,761   3,540 
Stock-based compensation expense   6,040   4,440 
Costs related to our exit of the convenient breakfast product line   2,341   — 
Dissolution of Ovabrite, Inc.   122   — 
Income tax provision (benefit)   1,601   (2,028)
Interest expense   114   52 
Change in fair value of contingent consideration   19   44 
Interest income   (992)   (381)
Adjusted EBITDA  $ 16,236  $ 8,049 
 
(1) Amount also includes finance lease amortization.
(2) Amount reflects the change in fair value of a contingent consideration liability in connection with our 2014 acquisition of 
certain assets of Heartland Eggs.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
Since inception, we have funded our operations with proceeds from sales of our capital stock, proceeds from borrowings and 
cash flows from the sale of our products. We had net income of $1.2 million for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022 and retained 
earnings of $4.2 million as of December 25, 2022. We completed our IPO on August 4, 2020, resulting in net proceeds to us of 
approximately $99.7 million, after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering costs associated with the offering.
Funding Requirements
We expect that our cash and cash equivalents, together with cash provided by our operating activities and available borrowings 
under our existing Credit Facility, will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses for at least the next 12 months. We further believe 
that we will be able to fund potential operating expenses and cash obligations beyond the next 12 months, through a combination of 
existing cash and cash equivalents, cash provided by our operating activities and access to additional funds held as investment 
securities as well as available borrowing under our Credit Facility.
Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our pace of new and existing customer growth, our 
investments in innovation, our investments in acquisitions, partnerships and unexplored channels and the potential costs associated with 
further expansion of our processing capacity. As of December 25, 2022, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable 
operating leases totaled $2.2 million and future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable finance leases totaled $9.9 million.
(1)
(2)
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 81/141

--- PAGE 82 ---
56
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 82/141

--- PAGE 83 ---
 
Credit Facility
We originally entered into our Credit Facility with PNC Bank, National Association, or PNC Bank, in October 2017. The Credit 
Facility initially included a $4.7 million term loan, a $10.0 million revolving line of credit and an equipment loan with a maximum 
borrowing capacity of $1.5 million.
Subsequently, terms of the Credit Facility were modified at various times between fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2022. Such amendments 
(i) amended various definitions, (ii) waived a technical default in May 2020 which was triggered by exceeding the capital expenditure 
limit, (iii) increased borrowing capacity and (iv) extended the maturity date. The Ninth Amendment to the Credit Facility in April 2021 
eliminated the term loan and equipment loan. The Tenth Amendment to the Credit Agreement in December 2022 modified certain 
covenants related to commodity hedging, consented to the dissolution of immaterial subsidiaries and implemented changes related to 
the discontinuation of LIBOR. The revolving line of credit matures in April 2024.
The maximum borrowing capacity under the revolving line of credit is $20.0 million. Interest on borrowings under the revolving 
line of credit, as well as loan advances thereunder, accrues at a rate, at our election at the time of borrowing, equal to (i) the secured 
overnight financing rate as administered by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York plus 2.00% or (ii) 1.00% plus the alternate base 
rate, as defined in the Credit Facility. In April 2020, all then-outstanding amounts under the revolving line of credit were repaid and the 
interest rate applicable to borrowings under the revolving line of credit was 4.5%.
The Credit Facility is secured by all of our assets (other than real property and certain other property excluded pursuant to the 
terms of the Credit Facility) and requires us to maintain three financial covenants: a fixed charge coverage ratio, a leverage ratio and a 
minimum tangible net worth requirement. The Credit Facility also contains various covenants relating to limitations on indebtedness, 
acquisitions, mergers, consolidations, the sale of properties and liens. As a result of the limitations contained in the Credit Facility, 
certain of the net assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 25, 2022 are restricted in use. The Credit Facility contains 
other customary covenants, representations and events of default.
As of December 25, 2022, there was no outstanding balance under the Credit Facility. As of December 25, 2022, we were in 
compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility. See “Long-Term Debt” in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements 
included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional details related to our Credit Facility.
Cash Flows
The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated:
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
  (in thousands)  
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities  $ (8,098)  $ 17,682 
Net cash used in investing activities   (10,037)   (18,440)
Net cash provided by financing activities   83   2,180 
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents  $ (18,052)  $ 1,422 
Operating Activities
Cash flows related to operating activities are dependent on net income, non-cash adjustments to net income, and changes in 
working capital. Net cash used in operating activities during the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022 is primarily due to an increase in 
cash used for working capital. The increase in cash used for working capital was primarily due to (i) an increase in accounts receivable 
as a result of significantly higher sales in the current fiscal year, (ii) a significant increase in inventory to support the ongoing growth of 
our business and improve our ability to meet increasing demand, and (iii) an increase in accrued liabilities for promotional spending to 
drive continued sales growth, employee related accruals, and marketing and broker commission accruals.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities during the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022 is primarily due to a reduction in capital 
spending related to our expansion of Egg Central Station that was completed in fiscal 2022. The net cash used in investing activities for 
purchases, sales and maturities of our available-for-sale debt securities during the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022 compared to the 
prior fiscal year is immaterial.
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 83/141

--- PAGE 84 ---
57
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 84/141

--- PAGE 85 ---
 
Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities during the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022 is primarily comprised of proceeds 
from the exercise of stock options in the current fiscal year, partially offset by principal payments on finance lease obligations.
Seasonality
Demand for our products fluctuates in response to seasonal factors. Demand tends to increase with the start of the school year 
and is highest prior to holiday periods, particularly Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter and the lowest during the summer months. As a 
result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, comparisons of our sales and results of operations between different quarters within 
a single fiscal year are not necessarily meaningful comparisons.
Critical Accounting Estimates
The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments 
that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and related notes thereto. Critical accounting estimates are those estimates 
that, in accordance with GAAP, involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a 
material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Management has determined that our most critical accounting estimates are 
those relating to revenue recognition and trade promotions, income taxes, and contingencies. Although we believe that the estimates we 
use are reasonable, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results reported in future periods could 
differ materially from those estimates. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates we consider critical. For further 
discussion about our accounting policies, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual 
Report.
Revenue Recognition and Trade Promotions
We recognize revenue for the sale of our product at the point in time when our performance obligation has been satisfied and 
control of the product has transferred to our customer, which generally occurs upon delivery to the customer based on terms of the sale. 
Revenue is measured by the transaction price, which is defined as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for 
providing goods to customers. The transaction price is adjusted for estimates of known or expected variable consideration, which 
include trade promotions as well as chargebacks such as coupons, discounts, rebates, spoils, and other programs. Variable consideration 
related to these programs is recorded as a reduction to revenue, at the time of sale, based on the amount we expect to incur.
The transaction price contains estimates of known or expected variable consideration. We base these estimates on current 
performance and historical utilization or experience. We review and update these estimates regularly until the incentives or product 
returns are realized and the impact of any adjustments are recognized in the period the adjustments are identified.
We do not believe it is reasonably likely that there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to recognize 
revenue. As noted above, estimates are made based on historical experience and other factors. Typically, programs that are offered have 
a short duration and historical differences between actual experience compared to estimated volumes, performance and redemptions 
have not been significant to the quarterly or annual financial statements. However, if the level of redemption rates, volumes or 
performance were to vary significantly from our estimates, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. We have not 
made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to recognize revenue during the past three fiscal years.
Income Taxes
We determine our effective tax rate by estimating our permanent differences resulting from differing treatment of items for 
financial and income tax purposes. We are periodically audited by taxing authorities and consider any adjustments made as a result of 
the audits in computing our income tax expense. Any audit adjustments affecting permanent differences could have an impact on our 
effective tax rate.
Deferred income taxes relate primarily to depreciation expense and share-based compensation programs accounted for differently 
for financial and income tax purposes. Changes in tax laws and rates could materially affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities 
in the future. Valuation allowances are recorded when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized for a deferred tax 
asset. Changes in projected future earnings could affect our recorded valuation allowances, if any, in the future.
We record unrecognized tax benefit liabilities for known or anticipated tax issues based on our analysis of whether, and the extent 
to which, additional taxes will be due.  However, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 85/141

--- PAGE 86 ---
result in a payment that is materially different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. To the extent we prevail in matters for 
which unrecognized tax benefit liabilities have been established or are required to pay amounts in excess of our recorded liability, our 
effective tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected.
58
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 86/141

--- PAGE 87 ---
 
Contingencies
We recognize the costs of legal defense for the legal proceedings to which we are a party during the periods in which the costs 
are incurred. After considerable analysis of the facts and circumstances of each case, we determine the amount of reserves required, if 
any. We evaluate whether a loss contingency exists, and if the assessment of a contingency indicates it is probable that a material loss 
has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, the estimated loss would be accrued.
There were no loss contingency reserves for the past three fiscal years. Future reserves may be required if losses are deemed 
reasonably estimable and probable due to changes in our assumptions, the effectiveness of legal strategies, or other factors beyond our 
control. Future results of operations may be materially affected by the creation of reserves or by accruals of losses to reflect any 
adverse determinations in these legal proceedings.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See the sections titled “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements” and   “—
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted” in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere 
in this Annual Report for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.
Emerging Growth Company Status
In April 2012, the JOBS Act was enacted. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an “emerging growth company” may take 
advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised 
accounting standards. Therefore, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those 
standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act. 
Accordingly, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of public companies that comply with such 
new or revised accounting standards.
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business. Market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our 
financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. Our market risk exposure is primarily the result of 
fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates.
Commodity Price Risk
We source our eggs and cream for our products from our network of family farms. The price we pay to purchase shell eggs from 
farmers fluctuates based on pallet weight, and under our buy-sell contracts, which account for all of the laying hens in our network of 
family farms as of December 25, 2022, the price we pay is also indexed quarterly in arrears for changes in feed cost, which may cause 
our agreed-upon pricing under these contracts to fluctuate on a quarterly basis. Under the remainder of our contracts, we are directly 
responsible for purchasing feed. Either type of contract subjects us to risk of price fluctuations in feed ingredients, primarily consisting 
of corn and soy. During January 2023, we entered into commodity hedging programs with respect to organic and conventional corn and 
soy feed ingredients. The price we pay for cream is subject to butter commodity fluctuations. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease 
in the weighted-average cost of these ingredients across our product lines as of December 25, 2022 would have resulted in an increase 
or decrease to cost of sales for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022 of approximately $7.5 million. We strive to offset the impact of 
ingredient cost increases with a combination of cost savings initiatives and efficiencies and price increases to our customers.
The packaging materials used for our products include cardboard, glass, corrugated fiberboard, kraft paper, flexible film and 
paperboard. These raw materials are subject to price fluctuations that may create price risk. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in 
the weighted-average cost of these raw materials as of December 25, 2022 would have resulted in an increase or decrease to cost of 
sales for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022 of approximately $2.8 million. We seek to mitigate the impact of raw materials cost 
increases with a combination of negotiated pricing agreements, cost savings initiatives and efficiencies and price increases to our 
customers.
Interest Rate Risk
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 87/141

--- PAGE 88 ---
We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with our credit facility agreement with PNC Bank, National Association, or the 
Credit Facility. See the section titled “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facility” above for additional details related to our 
Credit Facility. Based on the average interest rate on the instruments under the Credit Facility during the fiscal year ended December 
25, 2022, and to the extent that borrowings were outstanding, we do not believe that a hypothetical 10% change in the interest rate 
would have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022. 
59
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 88/141

--- PAGE 89 ---
 
Our interest-earning instruments also carry a degree of interest rate risk. As of December 25, 2022, we had cash and cash 
equivalents of $12.9 million and investments in available for sale securities of $65.8 million. As of December 25, 2022, the effective 
maturity of our investment securities available for sale was approximately 12 months and the composite credit rating of the holdings is 
A2 on the Moody's rating scale.
We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes and have not used any derivative financial instruments to 
manage our interest rate risk exposure during the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022.
 
60
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 89/141

--- PAGE 90 ---
 
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
Index to Financial Statements   
   
Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm (KPMG LLP, Austin, TX, PCAOB ID: 185)  62
   
Consolidated Balance Sheets  63
   
Consolidated Statements of Operations  64
   
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  65
   
Consolidated Statements of Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock, Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest and 
Stockholders’ Equity 
 66
   
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  68
   
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  69
 
61
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 90/141

--- PAGE 91 ---
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors
Vital Farms, Inc.:
Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Vital Farms, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 
25, 2022 and December 26, 2021, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, redeemable convertible 
preferred stock, redeemable noncontrolling interest and stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year 
period ended December 25, 2022, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements). In our opinion, the 
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 25, 2022 
and December 26, 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended 
December 25, 2022, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in 
accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to 
error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial 
reporting. As part of our audits, we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we 
express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, 
whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test 
basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the 
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the 
consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2019.
Austin, Texas
March 9, 2023
62
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 91/141

--- PAGE 92 ---
 
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Amounts in thousands, except share amounts)
  
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
       
Assets       
Current assets:       
Cash and cash equivalents  $ 12,914  $ 30,966 
Investment securities, available-for-sale   65,814   68,621 
Accounts receivable, net   40,227   26,938 
Inventories   26,849   10,945 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets   3,810   3,817 
Total current assets   149,614   141,287 
Property, plant and equipment, net   59,155   44,608 
Operating lease right-of-use assets   1,895   — 
Goodwill   3,858   3,858 
Other assets   144   189 
Total assets  $ 214,666  $ 189,942 
Liabilities, Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest and Stockholders’ Equity       
Current liabilities:       
Accounts payable  $ 25,972  $ 22,520 
Accrued liabilities   18,477   15,143 
Operating lease liabilities, current   1,208   — 
Finance lease liabilities, current   1,570   327 
Income taxes payable   425   — 
Total current liabilities   47,652   37,990 
Operating lease liabilities, non-current   892   — 
Finance lease liabilities, non-current   7,023   — 
Other liabilities   767   192 
Total liabilities  $ 56,334  $ 38,182 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 17)   —   — 
Redeemable noncontrolling interest   —   175 
Stockholders’ equity:       
Common stock, $0.0001 par value per share, 310,000,000 shares authorized as of December 25, 2022 and December 26, 2021; 40,746,990 and 40,493,969 shares issued and outstanding as of December 25, 2022 and December 26, 2021, respectively   4   5 
Additional paid-in capital   155,716   149,000 
Retained earnings   4,159   2,746 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss   (1,547)   (281)
Total stockholders’ equity attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. stockholders   158,332   151,470 
Noncontrolling interests   —   115 
Total stockholders’ equity  $ 158,332  $ 151,585 
Total liabilities, redeemable noncontrolling interest, and stockholders’ equity  $ 214,666  $ 189,942 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
63
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 92/141

--- PAGE 93 ---
 
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data)
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   
December 27,2020  
Net revenue  $ 362,050  $ 260,901  $ 214,280 
Cost of goods sold   252,606   178,002   139,752 
Gross profit   109,444   82,899   74,528 
Operating expenses:          
Selling, general and administrative   77,236   57,868   47,396 
Shipping and distribution   30,104   24,979   14,904 
Total operating expenses   107,340   82,847   62,300 
Income from operations   2,104   52   12,228 
Other income (expense), net:          
Interest expense   (114)   (52)   (488)
Interest income   992   381   97 
Other income (expense), net   (151)   (27)   (183)
Total other income (expense), net   727   302   (574)
Net income before income taxes   2,831   354   11,654 
Income tax provision (benefit)   1,601   (2,028)   2,770 
Net income   1,230   2,382   8,884 
Less: Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interests   (21)   (47)   84 
Net income attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. common stockholders  $ 1,251  $ 2,429  $ 8,800 
Net income per share attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. stockholders:          
Basic:  $ 0.03  $ 0.06  $ 0.31 
Diluted:  $ 0.03  $ 0.06  $ 0.27 
Weighted average common shares outstanding:          
Basic:   40,648,592   40,027,278   28,667,264 
Diluted:   43,469,586   43,321,733   32,914,653 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
64
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 93/141

--- PAGE 94 ---
 
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(Amounts in thousands)
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   
December 27,2020  
Net income  $ 1,230  $ 2,382  $ 8,884 
Other comprehensive loss          
Unrealized net holding loss on available-for-sale debt securities, net of 
deferred tax benefit of $383, $80 and $10 for the years ended December 
25, 2022, December 26, 2021 and December 27, 2020, respectively   (1,266)   (250)   (31)
Total comprehensive income  $ (36)  $ 2,132  $ 8,853 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
65
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 94/141

--- PAGE 95 ---
 
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK, REDEEMABLE NONCONTROLLING 
INTEREST AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(Amounts in thousands, except share amounts)
  
Redeemable
Convertible
Preferred Stock   
Rede
emab
le
Nonc
ontro
lling
Inter
est   Common Stock   Treasury Stock   
Additio
nal
Paid-In   
Retaine
d
Earning
s   
Accum
ulated
Other
Compr
ehensiv
e   
Total
Stockho
lders’
Equity
Attribut
able
to Vital
Farms, 
Inc.   
Nonc
ontrol
ling   
Total
Stockhol
ders’  
  Shares   Amount   
Amo
unt   Shares   
Am
ount   Shares   Amount   Capital   (Deficit)   Loss   
Stockho
lders   
Intere
sts   Equity  
Balances at December 
29, 2019
 
 
8,192,87
6  $
23,03
6  $
17
5   
31,429,8
98  $ 3   
(5,494,9
18)  $
(16,27
6)  $ 19,593  $ 5,239  $ —  $ 8,559  $ 79  $ 8,638 
Issuance of common 
stock pursuant to initial 
public offering, net of 
issuance costs of 
12,215
 
 —   —   —   
5,040,32
3   1   —   —   98,670   —   —   98,671   —   98,671 
Issuance of common 
stock upon conversion 
of preferred stock
 
 
(8,192,8
76)   
(23,03
6)   —   
8,192,87
6   1   —   —   23,035   —   —   23,036   —   23,036 
Exercise of stock 
options
 
 —   —   —   75,964   —   —   —   221   —   —   221   —   221 
Exercise of warrant   —   —   —   196,800   —   —   —   283   —   —   283   —   283 
Vesting of restricted 
stock units
 
 —   —   —   3,097   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   — 
Stock-based 
compensation expense
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   2,509   —   —   2,509   —   2,509 
Net income attributable 
to noncontrolling 
interests - stockholders
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   83   83 
Other comprehensive 
loss, net
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   (31)   (31)   —   (31)
Net income attributable 
to Vital Farms, Inc. 
stockholders
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   8,800   —   8,800   —   8,800 
Balances at December 
27, 2020
 
 —  $ —  $
17
5   
44,938,9
58  $ 5   
(5,494,9
18)  $
(16,27
6)  $
144,31
1  $
14,03
9  $ (31)  $
142,04
8  $ 162  $
142,21
0 
Exercise of stock 
options
 
 —   —   —   
1,034,92
9   —   —   —   2,803   —   —   2,803   —   2,803 
Vesting of restricted 
stock units
 
 —   —   —   15,000   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   — 
Stock-based 
compensation expense
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   4,440   —   —   4,440   —   4,440 
Net loss attributable to 
noncontrolling interests 
- stockholders
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   (47)   (47)
Retirement of treasury 
stock
 
 —   —   —   
(5,494,91
8)   —   
5,494,91
8   
16,27
6   (2,554)   
(13,72
2)   —   —   —   — 
Other comprehensive 
loss, net
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   (250)   (250)   —   (250)
Net income attributable 
to Vital Farms, Inc. 
stockholders
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   2,429   —   2,429   —   2,429 
Balances at December 
26, 2021
 
 —  $ —  $
17
5   
40,493,9
69  $ 5   —  $ —  $
149,00
0  $ 2,746  $ (281)  $
151,47
0  $ 115  $
151,58
5 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
66
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 95/141

--- PAGE 96 ---
 
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK, REDEEMABLE NONCONTROLLING 
INTEREST AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(Amounts in thousands, except share amounts)
  
Redeemable
Convertible
Preferred 
Stock   
Redee
mable
Nonco
ntrolli
ng
Interes
t   Common Stock   Treasury Stock   
Additional
Paid-In   
Retaine
d
Earnin
gs   
Accumu
lated
Other
Compre
hensive   
Total
Stockhold
ers’
Equity
Attributab
le
to Vital
Farms, 
Inc.   
Nonco
ntrolli
ng   
Total
Stockhold
ers’  
  Shar
es   
Am
ount   
Amou
nt   Shares   
Amo
unt   
Share
s   
Amou
nt   Capital   
(Deficit
)   Loss   
Stockhold
ers   
Intere
sts   Equity  
Exercise of stock 
options
 
 —   —   —   180,835   —   —   —   685   —   —   685   —   685 
Vesting of restricted 
stock units
 
 —   —   —   51,852   —   —   —   (9)   —   —   (9)   —   (9)
Employee stock 
purchase plan
 
 —   —   —   20,334   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   — 
Stock-based 
compensation expense
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   6,040   —   —   6,040   —   6,040 
Dissolution of 
noncontrolling interest
 
 —   —   (175)   —   (1)   —   —   —   —   —   (1)   68   67 
Net loss attributable to 
noncontrolling interests 
- stockholders
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   162   —   162   (183)   (21)
Other comprehensive 
loss, net
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   (1,266)   (1,266)   —   (1,266)
Net income attributable 
to Vital Farms, Inc. 
stockholders
 
 —   —   —   —   —   —   —   —   1,251   —   1,251   —   1,251 
Balances at December 
25, 2022
  —  $ —  $ —   40,746,990  $ 4   —  $ —  $ 155,716  $ 4,159  $ (1,547)  $ 158,332  $ —  $ 158,332 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
67
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 96/141

--- PAGE 97 ---
 
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Amounts in thousands)
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   
December 27,2020  
Cash flows from operating activities:          
Net income  $ 1,230  $ 2,382  $ 8,884 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities:          
Depreciation and amortization   5,441   3,540   2,550 
Amortization of right-of-use assets   1,840   —   — 
Amortization of available-for-sale debt securities   711   1,301   210 
Stock-based compensation expense   6,040   4,440   2,509 
Bad debt expense (recovery)   430   73   (108)
(Decrease) increase in inventory provision   (330)   224   16 
Deferred taxes   632   (2,536)   1,792 
Other   84   44   (449)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:          
Accounts receivable   (13,718)   (6,078)   (4,718)
Inventories   (15,574)   1,733   29 
Income taxes receivable   199   1,354   61 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets   (271)   426   (2,255)
Deposits and other assets   45   (46)   11 
Income taxes payable   425   —   — 
Accounts payable   2,352   6,796   1,807 
Accrued liabilities   3,843   4,029   1,173 
Operating lease liabilities   (1,477)   —   — 
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities  $ (8,098)  $ 17,682  $ 11,512 
Cash flows from investing activities:          
Purchases of property, plant and equipment   (10,468)   (16,711)   (10,300)
Purchases of leasehold improvements   (89)   —   — 
Purchases of available-for-sale debt securities   (33,817)   (51,688)   (77,202)
Sales of available-for-sale debt securities   —   1,436   4,504 
Maturities and call redemptions of available-for-sale debt securities   34,345   48,523   4,500 
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment   100   —   — 
Dissolution of noncontrolling interest   (108)   —   — 
Repayment of notes receivable provided to related parties   —   —   846 
     Net cash used in investing activities  $ (10,037)  $ (18,440)  $ (77,652)
Cash flows from financing activities:          
Proceeds from issuance of common stock pursuant to the initial public offering, net of issuance costs   —   —   99,671 
Proceeds from borrowings under term loan   —   —   5,000 
Proceeds from borrowings under equipment loan   —   —   1,461 
Proceeds from Paycheck Protection Program loan   —   —   2,593 
Repayment of revolving line of credit   —   —   (1,325)
Repayment of equipment loan   —   —   (2,015)
Repayment of term loan   —   —   (8,245)
Repayment of Paycheck Protection Program loan   —   —   (2,593)
Payment of contingent consideration   (38)   (152)   (192)
Principal payments under finance lease obligations   (554)   (471)   (449)
Proceeds from exercise of stock options   675   2,803   221 
Proceeds from exercise of warrant   —   —   283 
Net cash provided by financing activities  $ 83  $ 2,180  $ 94,410 
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents   (18,052)   1,422   28,270 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period   30,966   29,544   1,274 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period  $ 12,914  $ 30,966  $ 29,544 
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:          
Cash paid for interest  $ 114  $ 43  $ 414 
Cash paid for income taxes  $ 99  $ 102  $ 2,214 
Supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing   activities:          
Purchases of property, plant and equipment included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities  $ 1,143  $ 1,493  $ 167 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
68
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 97/141

--- PAGE 98 ---
 
VITAL FARMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share amounts)
1. Nature of the Business and Basis of Presentation
Vital Farms, Inc. (the "Company," "we," "us" or "our") was incorporated in Delaware on June 6, 2013 and is headquartered in 
Austin, Texas. The Company packages, markets and distributes shell eggs, butter and other products. These products are sold under the 
trade names Vital Farms and RedHill Farms, primarily to retail and foodservice channels in the United States.
Vital Farms of Missouri, LLC, Backyard Eggs, LLC, Barn Door Farms, LLC, Sagebrush Foodservice, LLC and Vital Farms, 
LLC were, as of the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022, all wholly owned subsidiaries of Vital Farms. Each such subsidiary (other 
than Vital Farms of Missouri, LLC) was dissolved during the fiscal quarter ending March 26, 2023. All significant intercompany 
transactions and balances have been eliminated in the audited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally 
accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP” or “GAAP”) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
Fiscal Year: The Company’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in December and contains either 52 or 53 weeks. Therefore, the 
financial results of certain 53-week years will not be exactly comparable to the prior and subsequent 52-week years. The fiscal years 
ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020 all contain operating results for 52 weeks.
Forward Stock Split: In July 2020, the board of directors and the stockholders of the Company approved a 2.46-for-1 forward 
stock split of the Company’s outstanding common stock and preferred stock, which was effected on July 22, 2020. Stockholders 
entitled to fractional shares as a result of the forward stock split received a cash payment in lieu of receiving fractional shares. All 
common stock, preferred stock, and per share information has been retroactively adjusted to give effect to this forward stock split for 
all periods presented. Shares of common stock underlying outstanding stock options and other equity instruments were proportionately 
increased and the respective per share value and exercise prices, if applicable, were proportionately decreased in accordance with the 
terms of the agreements governing such securities. There were no changes in the par values of the Company’s common stock and 
preferred stock as a result of the forward stock split.
Initial Public Offering: In August 2020, the Company completed its initial public offering (“IPO”) of 10,699,573 shares of 
common stock at an offering price of $22.00 per share.  The Company offered 5,040,323 shares of common stock and the selling 
stockholders offered an additional 5,659,250 shares of common stock, including the underwriter’s option to purchase up to an 
additional 1,395,596 shares of common stock from the selling stockholders. The Company received gross proceeds of approximately 
$110,887 before deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering related transaction costs; the Company did not receive 
any proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders.  Upon the closing of the IPO in August 2020, all of the then-
outstanding shares of preferred stock automatically converted into 8,192,876 shares of common stock on a one-for-one basis. 
Subsequent to the closing of the IPO, there were no shares of preferred stock outstanding. The consolidated financial statements as of 
December 25, 2022, including share and per share amounts, include the effects of the IPO.
Secondary Public Offering: In November 2020, the Company completed a secondary public offering of 5,000,000 shares of 
common stock from selling stockholders in which no proceeds from the sale of shares were received by the Company and the Company 
incurred $0.5 million of expenses.
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the 
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates principally include 
revenue recognition, determination of useful lives for property and equipment, trade spend accruals, goodwill, allowance for doubtful 
accounts, inventory obsolescence, stock option valuations, accrued liabilities and income taxes. Actual results could differ from those 
estimates.
Concentrations of Credit Risk and Significant Customers: Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to 
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments and accounts receivable. The Company 
maintains deposits with large financial institutions that the Company believes are of high credit quality. At times the Company’s cash 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 98/141

--- PAGE 99 ---
and cash equivalents balances with individual banking institutions are in excess of federally insured limits. The Company has not 
experienced any losses related to its cash and cash equivalents balances.
69
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 99/141

--- PAGE 100 ---
 
As of December 25, 2022 and December 26, 2021, the Company had customers that individually represented 10% or more of the 
Company’s accounts receivable, net. During fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020 the Company also had customers that individually 
exceeded 10% or more of the Company’s net revenue. Significant customer information is presented below as follows:
 
  
Net Revenue Year Ended December 25, 2022  
Net Revenue Year Ended December 26, 2021  
Net Revenue Year Ended December 27, 2020  
Accounts Receivable, Net as of December 25, 2022  
Accounts Receivable, Net as of December 26, 2021
Customer A  26%  18%  15%  23%  19%
Customer B  *  14%  18%  *  *
Customer C  *  10%  12%  *  *
Customer D  11%  12%  13%  12%  13%
Customer E  *  *  *  13%  12%
* Revenue and/or accounts receivable was less than 10%.
The increase in the percentage of net revenue for Customer A for fiscal 2022 is due a net shift in the Company’s distribution 
channels away from Customer B during the fiscal year ended December 26, 2021. The decrease in percentage of net revenue for 
Customer C and D is due to shifts in the Company's distribution channels.
Cash and Cash Equivalents: The Company considers all short-term, highly liquid investments purchased with an original 
maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash deposits are all in financial institutions in the 
United States. As of December 25, 2022, cash and cash equivalents consisted of cash on deposit with balances denominated in U.S. 
dollars and investments in money market funds.
Investment Securities: The Company accounts for its investment securities in accordance with ASC 320, Investments-Debt and 
Equity Securities. The Company considers all of its debt securities for which there is a determinable fair market value, and there are no 
restrictions on the Company's ability to sell within the next 12 months, as available-for-sale. We classify these securities as current, 
because the amounts invested are available for current operations. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized 
gains and losses, net of tax, recorded in other comprehensive income until the security is settled or sold.
The amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such 
amortization is recorded in interest income. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method with realized gains 
and losses on the sale of debt securities and declines in value due to credit-related factors, reclassified out of accumulated other 
comprehensive income when sold and recorded in other income. Income tax effects related to realized gains and losses on available-
for-sale securities are released from accumulated other comprehensive income quarterly with the recognition of the Company's tax 
provision. Interest and dividends on securities classified as available-for-sale are recorded in interest income.
Variable Interest Entity: The Company consolidates all entities where a controlling financial interest exists. The Company has 
considered its relationships with a certain entity to determine whether the Company has a variable interest in that entity, and if so, 
whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the relationship. GAAP requires variable interest entities (“VIEs”) to be 
consolidated if an entity’s interest in the VIE is a controlling financial interest. Under the variable model, a controlling financial interest 
is determined based on which entity, if any, has (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impacts the VIE’s 
economic performance and (ii) the obligations to absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive 
benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
Management performs ongoing reassessments of whether changes in the facts and circumstances regarding the Company’s 
involvement with a VIE will cause the consolidation conclusion to change. The consolidation status of a VIE may change as a result of 
such reassessments. Changes in consolidation status are applied prospectively in accordance with GAAP.
Segment Information: The Company operates and manages its business as one reportable and operating segment. The 
Company’s chief executive officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, reviews financial information on an aggregate basis for 
purposes of evaluating financial performance and allocating resources. All of the Company’s long-lived assets and customers are 
located in the United States.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments: Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer 
a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The three levels of inputs that may be used to 
measure fair value are defined below:
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 100/141

--- PAGE 101 ---
• Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
70
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 101/141

--- PAGE 102 ---
 
• Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, such 
as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that 
are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or 
liabilities.
• Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity that are significant to 
determining the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including pricing models, discounted cash flow 
methodologies and similar techniques.
The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current 
liabilities approximate their fair values due to the short-term nature of these assets and liabilities. 
Accounts Receivable: Accounts receivable are stated at net realizable value. This value includes an appropriate allowance for 
estimated uncollectible accounts to reflect any anticipated losses on the accounts receivable balances and charged to the allowance for 
doubtful accounts. These losses have been immaterial to date. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. The 
allowance for doubtful accounts is evaluated on a regular basis by management and is based on the credit risk of specific customers, 
past collection history, and management’s evaluation of accounts receivable. The evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires 
estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. The Company generally does not have 
collateral for its receivables, but the Company does periodically evaluate the creditworthiness of its customers.
Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined under the first-in, first-out method) or net realizable value. In 
addition to product cost, inventory costs include expenditures such as in-bound shipping and handling and warehousing costs incurred 
in bringing the inventory to its existing condition and location. Inventory includes eggs and egg-related products, butter and butter-
related products, packaging, feed, laying hens, pullets, and equipment parts. A reduction in the carrying value of an inventory item from 
cost to net realizable value is recorded in cost of goods sold with the offset to inventory. Any inventory that does not meet the quality 
control standards of the Company is separated and written down to its net realizable value.
Property, Plant and Equipment: Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and 
amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives. The general 
range of useful lives of other property, plant and equipment is as follows:
 
   
     Estimated Useful Life
Land   
 N/A
Land improvements  15 to 20 years
Buildings and improvements   
 15 to 39 years
Vehicles   
 5 years
Machinery and equipment   
 2 to 7 years
Furniture and fixtures   
 5 years
Leasehold improvements   
 Lesser of lease term or 5 years
When assets are sold or retired, the cost and related accumulated depreciation or amortization of assets disposed of are removed 
from the accounts, with any resulting gain or loss recorded in operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Normal repairs 
and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred to operations.
Goodwill: Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired 
in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually on the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter 
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. The Company’s goodwill impairment 
test is performed at the enterprise level given the single reporting unit.
The Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether events or circumstances existed that would lead the 
Company to conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount. If the 
Company determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below the carrying amount based on 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 102/141

--- PAGE 103 ---
qualitative factors or if significant changes to macro-economic factors related to the reporting unit have occurred that could materially 
impact fair value, a quantitative goodwill assessment would be required. In the quantitative evaluation, the fair value of the reporting 
unit is determined and compared to the carrying value. If the fair value is greater than the carrying value, then the carrying value is 
deemed to be recoverable and no further action is required. If the fair value estimate is less than the carrying value, goodwill is 
considered impaired for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value and a charge is reported as 
impairment of goodwill in the consolidated statements of operations. To date, the Company has not recorded any impairment charges 
associated with its goodwill.
71
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 103/141

--- PAGE 104 ---
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: The Company reviews the carrying value of property, plant and equipment for impairment 
whenever events and circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable from the estimated undiscounted 
future cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. In cases where undiscounted expected future cash flows are 
less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to an amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of 
assets. The factors considered by management in performing this assessment include current operating results, trends and prospects and 
the effects of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors. The Company did not recognize an impairment loss 
during the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020.
Contingent Consideration: In connection with the Company’s acquisition of certain assets of Heartland Eggs, LLC in 2014, the 
Company was required to make royalty payments to prior owners of certain assets of Heartland Eggs. The royalty payments were 
contingent on the Company’s future purchase of eggs from supplier contracts that were acquired in the certain assets of Heartland Eggs 
acquisition. The royalty payments were deemed to be contingent because the future egg purchases were not guaranteed, and the timing 
and amount of any such purchases were unknown. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined at the acquisition date 
using unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs). These inputs included projected financial information, market volatility, risk-adjusted 
discount rates and timing of contractual payments. Subsequent to the acquisition date, at each reporting date, the contingent 
consideration liability was remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recorded within selling, general and administrative 
expenses in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. As of the second quarter of fiscal year 2022, this contingent liability 
was reduced to zero.
Noncontrolling Interest: The Company recognizes noncontrolling interest related to VIEs, in which the Company is the primary 
beneficiary, as equity in the consolidated financial statements separate from the parent entity’s equity. The amount of net income or loss 
attributable to noncontrolling interests is included in consolidated net income on the face of the consolidated statements of operations. 
Changes in the parent entity’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation are treated as equity transactions if 
the parent entity retains its controlling financial interest. In addition, when a subsidiary is deconsolidated, any retained noncontrolling 
equity investment in the former subsidiary will be initially measured at fair value and the difference between the carrying value and fair 
value of the retained interest will be recorded as a gain or loss. Affiliate equity interests where the Company has certain rights to 
demand settlement are presented at their current redemption values, as redeemable noncontrolling interest in the consolidated balance 
sheet. Because these transactions take place between entities under common control, any gains or losses attributable to these 
transactions are required to be included within additional paid-in-capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
Income Taxes: Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax 
assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the consolidated financial 
statements. In estimating future tax consequences, the Company considers all expected future events other than enactment of changes 
in tax laws or rates. A valuation allowance is recorded, if necessary, to reduce net deferred tax assets to their realizable values if 
management does not believe it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized.
The Company follows the provisions of the authoritative guidance from the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) on 
accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. These provisions provide a comprehensive model for the recognition, measurement and 
disclosure in financial statements of uncertain income tax positions that a company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. Under 
these provisions, a company can recognize the benefit of an income tax position only if it is more likely than not (greater than 50%) 
that the tax position will be sustained upon tax examination, based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Otherwise, no 
benefit can be recognized. Assessing an uncertain tax position begins with the initial determination of the sustainability of the position 
and is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. As of each 
balance sheet date, unresolved uncertain tax positions must be reassessed. Additionally, the Company must accrue interest and related 
penalties, if applicable, on all tax exposures for which reserves have been established consistent with jurisdictional tax laws.
The Company’s policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the provision for income taxes. 
As of December 25, 2022 and December 26, 2021 the Company had accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions of 
$85 and $0.
Net Income (Loss) per Share Attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. Common Stockholders: The Company applies the two-class 
method to compute basic and diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to the Company’s common stockholders when shares meet 
the definition of participating securities. The two-class method determines net income per share for each class of the Company’s 
common stock and Preferred Stock according to dividends declared or accumulated and participation rights in undistributed earnings. 
The two-class method requires income available to common stockholders for the period to be allocated between the Company’s 
common stock and Preferred Stock based upon their respective rights to share in the earnings as if all income for the period had been 
distributed. During periods of loss, there is no allocation required under the two-class method since the Preferred Stock does not have a 
contractual obligation to share in the Company’s losses.
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 104/141

--- PAGE 105 ---
72
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 105/141

--- PAGE 106 ---
 
Basic net income per share attributable to the Company’s stockholders is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-
average number of shares outstanding during the period without consideration of potentially dilutive common stock. Diluted net 
income per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue shares of the Company’s 
common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the 
earnings of the Company unless inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive. For periods in which the Company reports net losses, 
diluted net loss per common share attributable to the Company’s common stockholders is the same as basic net loss, because 
potentially dilutive common shares are not assumed to have been issued if their effect is anti-dilutive.
Revenue Recognition: The Company generates revenue primarily through sales of products to its customers, which include 
natural channel retailers, mainstream channel retailers and foodservice customers. The Company sells its products to customers on a 
purchase-order basis.
Revenue is recognized when control of the product is transferred to the customer and the related performance obligation is 
satisfied, which typically occurs upon delivery of the product to the customer, for an amount that reflects the net consideration the 
Company expects to receive in exchange for delivering the product. We offer sales incentives through various programs to customers 
and allow deductions from our customers, which may include credits or discounts to customers in the event that products do not 
conform to customer specifications or expire at a customer’s site. The cost associated with promotions and chargebacks is estimated 
and recorded as a reduction in revenue and is recognized at the time the related revenue is recorded, which normally precedes the actual 
cash expenditure. The recognition of this cost therefore requires management judgement regarding the volume of promotional offers 
that will be redeemed. Differences between estimated cost and actual redemptions are recognized as a change in management estimate 
in a subsequent period.
In many cases, key sales terms such as pricing and quantities ordered are established on a regular basis such that most customer 
arrangements and related incentives have a duration of less than one year. Amounts billed and due from customers are short term in 
nature and are classified as receivables since payments are unconditional and only the passage of time is required before payments are 
due.
Treasury Stock: The Company records treasury stock activities under the cost method whereby the cost of the acquired stock is 
recorded as treasury stock. The Company’s accounting policy upon the formal retirement of treasury stock is to deduct the par value 
from the Company’s common stock and to reflect any excess of cost over par value as a reduction to additional paid-in capital (to the 
extent created by previous issuances of the shares).
Shipping and Distribution: The Company’s shipping and distribution costs include costs incurred with third-party carriers to 
transport products to customers and salaries and overhead costs related to activities to prepare the Company’s products for shipment. 
Shipping and distribution costs were $30,104, $24,979, and $14,904 during the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 
2021, and December 27, 2020, respectively. Freight-in costs are included within Cost of Goods Sold and were $9,610, $7,623, and 
$5,126 during the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, respectively.
Stock-Based Compensation: The Company measures all stock-based awards granted to employees and directors based on the 
fair value on the date of the grant and recognizes compensation expense for those awards, over the requisite service period, which is 
generally the vesting period of the respective award. The fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the 
Black-Scholes option-pricing valuation model, which requires inputs based on certain subjective assumptions, including the fair market 
value of the Company’s common stock, expected stock price volatility, the expected term of the option, the risk-free interest rate for a 
period that approximates the expected term of the option, and the Company’s expected dividend yield. The Company classifies stock-
based compensation expense in its consolidated statements of operations in the same manner in which the award recipient’s payroll 
costs are classified or in which the award recipient’s service payments are classified.
Advertising and Promotion Expenses: Advertising and promotion expenses consist primarily of production costs and the costs 
to communicate the advertisements to promote and market the Company’s products. Production costs such as idea development, 
artwork, audio and video crews and other up-front development costs are expensed the first time the associated advertising campaign is 
launched or aired. The costs to communicate the advertisements such as airtime and distribution costs are expensed as incurred.  During 
the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, the Company incurred advertising and 
promotion expenses of approximately $13,301, $11,469, and $9,815, respectively.
Emerging Growth Company Status: The Company is an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart Our 
Business Startups Act of 2012 (“JOBS Act”). Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised 
financial accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. The Company elected to use the extended 
transition period for complying with the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and, as a result of this election, the 
Company’s financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates.
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 106/141

--- PAGE 107 ---
73
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 107/141

--- PAGE 108 ---
 
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements: In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) 
issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”) and also issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance, ASU 2017-
13, ASU 2018-01, ASU 2018-10, ASU 2018-11, ASU 2018-20, ASU 2019-01, ASU 2019-10, ASU 2020-02, and ASU 2020-05 
(collectively, “Topic 842”). The guidance in Topic 842 supersedes the leasing guidance in Topic 840, Leases. Under the new guidance, 
lessees are required to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. 
Leases are classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated 
statement of operations. An entity may adopt the guidance either (1) retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented in the 
financial statements with a cumulative-effect adjustment recognized at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented or 
(2) retrospectively at the beginning of the period of adoption through a cumulative-effect adjustment. The Company adopted Topic 842 
as of the beginning of the period of adoption, December 27, 2021, and has not applied the new standard to comparative periods 
presented.
To reduce the burden of adoption and ongoing compliance with Topic 842, a number of practical expedients and policy elections 
are available under the new guidance. The Company elected the "package of practical expedients" permitted under the transition 
guidance, which among other things, did not require reassessment of whether contracts entered into prior to adoption are or contain 
leases, and allowed carryforward of the historical lease classification for existing leases. The Company has not elected to adopt the 
“hindsight” practical expedient, and therefore will measure the right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities using the remaining 
portion of the lease term at adoption on December 27, 2021.
The Company made an accounting policy election under Topic 842 not to recognize ROU assets and lease liabilities for leases 
with a term of 12 months or less. For all other leases, the Company recognizes ROU assets and lease liabilities based on the present 
value of lease payments over the lease term at the commencement date of the lease (or December 27, 2021 for existing leases upon the 
adoption of Topic 842). The Company’s recognized ROU assets also include any initial direct costs incurred and lease payments made 
at or before the commencement date, which are reduced by any lease incentives.
Future lease payments may include fixed rent escalation clauses or payments that depend on an index (such as the Consumer 
Price Index measured by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics). Subsequent index changes and other periodic market-rate adjustments to 
base rent are recorded as variable lease expense during the period in which they are incurred. Residual value guarantees or payments 
for terminating the lease are included in the lease payments only when it is probable they will be incurred.
The Company has made an accounting policy election to account for lease and non-lease components in its contracts as a single 
lease component for all asset classes. The non-lease components typically represent additional services transferred to the Company, 
such as common area maintenance for real estate, which are variable in nature and recorded in variable lease expense in the period 
incurred.
As an emerging growth company, the Company uses its lease-specific collateralized incremental borrowing rate to determine the 
present value of lease payments at lease commencement or upon the adoption of Topic 842. The adoption of the new lease standard had 
an immaterial impact on our consolidated net earnings and consolidated cash flows and did not result in a cumulative-effect adjustment 
to the opening balance of retained earnings. The adoption of Topic 842 as of December 27, 2021, resulted in the recording of right-of-
use assets and lease liabilities of $4.1 million and $3.8 million, respectively.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted: In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial 
Instruments — Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”) and also issued 
subsequent amendments to the initial guidance, ASU 2018-19, ASU 2019-04, ASU 2019-05, ASU 2019-10, ASU 2019-11, ASU 2020-
02, and ASU 2020-03 (collectively, “Topic 326”), to introduce a new impairment model for recognizing credit losses on financial 
instruments based on an estimate of current expected credit losses. Topic 326 requires financial assets measured at amortized cost to be 
presented at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on relevant information about 
past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of 
the reported amounts. An entity must use judgment in determining the relevant information and estimation methods that are appropriate 
in its circumstances. For non-public companies, Topic 326 is effective for years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim 
periods within those years. The Company expects to adopt Topic 326 on December 26, 2022. The Company is currently evaluating the 
impact of its pending adoption of Topic 326 on its consolidated financial statements.
In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes 
(“ASU 2019-12”), which intends to simplify the guidance by removing certain exceptions to the general principles and clarifying or 
amending existing guidance. ASU 2019-12 is effective for years beginning after December 15, 2021, and interim periods within years 
beginning after December 15, 2022. The Company expects to adopt ASU 2019-12 on December 26, 2022. Although the Company is 
currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2019-12, the Company does not expect it to have a material impact on its 
consolidated financial statements.
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 108/141

--- PAGE 109 ---
74
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 109/141

--- PAGE 110 ---
 
3. Investment Securities
The following table summarizes the Company’s available-for-sale investment securities as of December 25, 2022:
 
  Amortized Cost   Unrealized Losses   Fair Value  
U.S. Corporate Bonds and U.S. Dollar
   Denominated Foreign Bonds  $ 66,658  $ (1,996)  $ 64,662 
U.S. Treasury   1,176   (24)   1,152 
Total  $ 67,834  $ (2,020)  $ 65,814 
The following table summarizes the Company’s available-for-sale investment securities as of December 26, 2021:
 
  Amortized Cost   Unrealized Losses   Fair Value  
U.S. Corporate Bonds and U.S. Dollar
   Denominated Foreign Bonds  $ 64,816  $ (364)  $ 64,452 
Commercial Paper   2,999   —   2,999 
U.S. Treasury   1,177   (7)   1,170 
Total  $ 68,992  $ (371)  $ 68,621 
For the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, proceeds from the sale of available-
for-sale securities were $0, $1,436, and $4,504, respectively. Realized gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale securities were 
not material for the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020. Net unrealized holding losses 
for the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, were $1,745, $384, and $41, before tax, 
respectively.
During the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022, the unrealized losses in our U.S. corporate bond portfolio consist of losses on 
93 diversified issuances with credit ratings from BBB to AAA. As of December 25, 2022, there are no individual bonds with unrealized 
losses exceeding $92, and 44 issuances have been in a loss position greater than 12 months with aggregate unrealized losses of $1,136.
The decline in fair value has resulted primarily from rising interest rates over the last 12 months and the Company does not 
believe there has been any significant decline in the creditworthiness of the issuers. The Company also does not believe it is likely that 
the bonds will be called early given the current interest rate environment, and it does not have current liquidity needs that would 
necessitate a sale of the investments prior to maturity. Therefore, the Company has not recorded an allowance for credit losses on the 
investment securities as of December 25, 2022.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because some borrowers have the right to call or prepay obligations with 
or without call or prepayment penalties. Contractual maturities of investment securities as of December 25, 2022 are as follows:
 
  Amortized Cost   Fair Value  
Due within one year  $ 25,291  $ 24,816 
Due in 1-5 years   42,543   40,998 
Total available-for-sale  $ 67,834  $ 65,814 
The following tables present information about the Company's financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the 
periods presented:
 
  Fair Value Measurements as of December 25, 2022, Using:  
  Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   Total  
Assets:             
U.S. Corporate Bonds and U.S. Dollar
   Denominated Foreign Bonds  $ —  $ 64,662  $ —  $ 64,662 
Money Market   6,740   —   —   6,740 
U.S. Treasury   —   1,152   —   1,152 
Total assets measured at fair value  $ 6,740  $ 65,814  $ —  $ 72,554 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 110/141

--- PAGE 111 ---
 
75
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 111/141

--- PAGE 112 ---
 
  Fair Value Measurements as of December 26, 2021, Using:  
  Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   Total  
Assets:             
U.S. Corporate Bonds and U.S. Dollar
   Denominated Foreign Bonds  $ —  $ 64,452  $ —  $ 64,452 
Commercial Paper   —   2,999   —   2,999 
Money Market   20,101   —   —   20,101 
U.S. Treasury   —   1,170   —   1,170 
Total assets measured at fair value  $ 20,101  $ 68,621  $ —  $ 88,722 
During the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022 and December 26, 2021, there were no transfers between fair value 
measurement levels.
4. Revenue Recognition
The following table summarizes the Company’s net revenue by primary product for the periods presented: 
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   
December 27,2020  
Net Revenue:          
Egg and egg-related products  $ 339,214  $ 239,967  $ 196,695 
Butter and butter-related products   22,836   20,934   17,585 
Net Revenue  $ 362,050  $ 260,901  $ 214,280 
Net revenue is primarily generated from the sale of eggs and butter. The Company's product offerings include shell eggs, hard-
boiled eggs, liquid whole eggs, butter (including stick butter and spreadable tub butter) and ghee. The Company's previous convenient 
breakfast product line (including egg bites and egg-based breakfast bars) was discontinued in 2022.
The fiscal year ended December 27, 2020 includes revenue totaling $624 resulting from the reduction of a sales promotion 
incentive settled in Q2 2020 that related to a prior year’s gross sales.
5. Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable, net was $40,227 and $26,938 as of December 25, 2022 and December 26, 2021, respectively.
As of December 25, 2022 and December 26, 2021, the Company recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts of $699 and $269, 
respectively. Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts were as follows:
 
  
Allowance fordoubtful accounts  
As of December 29, 2019  $ (304)
Provisions Charged to Operating Results   (217)
Account Write-off and Recoveries, net   325 
As of December 27, 2020  $ (196)
Provisions Charged to Operating Results   (184)
Account Write-off and Recoveries, net   111 
As of December 26, 2021  $ (269)
Provisions Charged to Operating Results   (752)
Account Write-off and Recoveries, net   322 
As of December 25, 2022  $ (699)
 
76
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 112/141

--- PAGE 113 ---
 
6. Inventories
Inventory consisted of the following as of the periods presented:
  
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
Eggs and egg-related products  $ 13,675  $ 5,850 
Butter and butter-related products   5,718   2,359 
Packaging   5,452   2,166 
Pullets   981   267 
Other   1,121   731 
Reserve for inventory obsolescence   (98)  (428)
Inventories  $ 26,849  $ 10,945 
On a periodic basis, the Company compares the amount of inventory on hand with its latest forecasted requirement to determine 
whether charges for excess or obsolete inventory reserves are required.
7. Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following as of the periods presented:
 
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
Land  $ 552  $ 525 
Land improvements   835   — 
Buildings and improvements   29,667   14,214 
Vehicles   894   695 
Machinery and equipment   34,978   15,523 
Leasehold improvements   919   830 
Furniture and fixtures   685   503 
Construction in progress   3,312   21,164 
    71,842   53,454 
Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization   (12,687)  (8,846)
Property, plant and equipment, net  $ 59,155  $ 44,608 
During the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, depreciation and amortization of 
property, plant and equipment was approximately $5,441, $3,540, and $2,550, respectively.
8. Leases
The Company determines if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception, which is the date on which the terms of the 
contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. Under Topic 842, a contract is or contains a lease 
when (i) explicitly or implicitly identified assets have been deployed in the contract and (ii) the customer obtains substantially all of the 
economic benefits from the use of that underlying asset and directs how and for what purpose the asset is used during the term of the 
contract. The Company also considers whether its service arrangements include the right to control the use of an asset.
The Company leases office facilities, warehouses, office equipment and vehicles for delivery of products under lease agreements 
with initial terms approximating one to five years. In addition, substantially all the Company’s long-term supply contracts with farms 
contain components that meet the definition of embedded leases within the scope of Topic 842, Leases. These arrangements convey to 
the Company the right to control implicitly identified property, plant and equipment as it takes substantially all the utility generated by 
these assets over the term of the arrangements at a variable price. The initial term of these supply agreements ranges from one to seven 
years. As total purchase commitments contained in these arrangements are variable, the amounts attributable to the lease components 
are contingent rentals; there are no minimum lease payments associated with these long-term supply contracts.
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 113/141

--- PAGE 114 ---
77
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 114/141

--- PAGE 115 ---
 
As the classification and timing of recognition of costs attributable to the eggs and embedded cost of the lease rentals are 
identical, the Company does not allocate the total purchase cost of eggs between the cost of the eggs and the embedded cost of the lease 
rentals or distinguish between them in its accounting records. The Company records the total purchase cost of eggs, which includes 
costs associated with the eggs and the corresponding cost of embedded lease rentals from the same arrangement, into inventory. These 
costs are expensed to cost of goods sold when the associated eggs are sold to customers and are also reported as part of the Company's 
variable lease cost. For the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022, these costs totaled $144 million.
 The Company's office lease for our corporate headquarters facility in Austin, Texas includes an option to renew, generally at our 
sole discretion, with renewal terms that can extend the lease term up to five years. In addition, certain leases contain termination 
options, where the rights to terminate are held by the Company, the lessor, or both parties. These options to extend or terminate a lease 
are included in the lease terms when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise that option. As of December 25, 2022, it is 
not reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the right to extend its office lease and therefore, the Company has not included 
the extended term in the calculation of its ROU assets or liabilities. The Company’s leases do not contain any material restrictive 
covenants or residual value guarantees.
Operating lease cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and is classified within cost of goods sold and 
selling, general and administrative cost in the consolidated statement of operations for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022.
Finance lease cost is recognized as amortization expense for ROU assets and interest expense associated with finance lease 
liabilities. Amortization expense associated with the Company's finance leases during the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022 was 
$439 and is recorded within cost of goods sold and selling, general and administrative costs in the consolidated statement of operations.
The components of lease cost consisted of the following for the periods presented:
 
  
December 25,2022   December 26,2021  
Operating lease cost  $ 1,445  $ — 
Finance lease cost - amortization of right-of-use assets   439   — 
Finance lease cost - interest on lease liabilities   87   28 
Short-term lease cost   67   — 
Variable lease cost   2,967   — 
Variable lease cost - long-term supply contracts   143,696   — 
Total lease cost  $ 148,701  $ 28 
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is as follows:
 
  
As of December 25, 2022   
As of December 26, 2021  
Operating Leases       
Operating lease right-of-use assets  $ 1,895  $ — 
       
Operating lease liabilities, current  $ 1,208  $ — 
Operating lease liabilities, non-current   892   — 
Total operating lease liabilities  $ 2,100  $ — 
Finance Leases       
Property, plant and equipment, net  $ 8,659  $ 876 
        
Finance lease liabilities, current  $ 1,570  $ 327 
Finance lease liabilities, non-current   7,023   — 
Total finance lease liabilities  $ 8,593  $ 327 
 
  As of December 25, 2022  
  
Operating Leases   Finance Leases  
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 115/141

--- PAGE 116 ---
Weighted-average remaining lease term (years)   2.18   4.85 
Weighted-average discount rate   3.32%  6.34%
 
78
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 116/141

--- PAGE 117 ---
 
Future undiscounted cash flows are as follows:
 
  As of December 25, 2022  
  
Operating Leases   Finance Leases  
2023  $ 1,254  $ 2,059 
2024   471   2,059 
2025   338   2,059 
2026   115   2,059 
2027   —   1,711 
Thereafter   —   — 
Total lease payments   2,178   9,947 
Less imputed interest   (78)  (1,354)
Total present value of lease liabilities  $ 2,100  $ 8,593 
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases is as follows:
Cash paid for amounts included in measurement of lease liabilities:
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 25,2022   December 26,2021  
Operating cash outflows - payments on operating leases  $ 1,477  $ — 
Operating cash outflows - interest payments on finance 
leases
 
$ 87  $ 28 
Financing cash outflows - principal payments on finance 
leases
 
$ 554  $ 471 
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new lease obligations:
 
  As of December 25, 2022   As of December 26, 2021  
Operating leases  $ —  $ — 
Finance leases   8,931   — 
 
9. Accrued Liabilities
Accrued liabilities consisted of the following as of the periods presented:
 
 
 
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
Accrued employee related costs  $ 7,453  $ 3,039 
Accrued promotions and customer deductions   4,414   3,599 
Accrued distribution fees and freight   2,351   3,875 
Accrued marketing and broker commissions   1,598   769 
Accrued purchases of inventory   1,349   1,197 
Accrued professional fees   761   344 
Accrued property, plant and equipment   153   1,258 
Other   398   1,062 
Accrued liabilities  $ 18,477  $ 15,143 
 
79
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 117/141

--- PAGE 118 ---
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 118/141

--- PAGE 119 ---
 
10. Product Exit Costs
During the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022, the Company made the determination to exit its convenient breakfast product 
category due to a shift in the Company's focus to product categories that are core to its operations. Charges incurred in connection with 
these product exits were substantially complete by December 25, 2022. Due to the relatively short term over which the charges will 
ultimately be settled, the Company believes the actual charges as shown below approximate fair value.
The following table summarizes the activity related to the exit of the Company's convenient breakfast products during the fiscal 
year ended December 25, 2022:
 
    For the Fiscal Year Ended December 25, 2022  
Description  Statement of Operations Classification  Charges Incurred   
Amounts Paid or Settled   
Amounts Released as Unutilized   
Ending Liability Balance  
Contract terminations
 
Selling, general and 
administrative  $ 1,126  $ (1,126)  $ —  $ — 
Inventory obsolescence  Cost of goods sold   749   (749)   —   — 
Customer allowances  Net revenue   146   (111)   (35)   — 
Asset write-downs  Cost of goods sold   119   —   —   119 
Co-manufacturer charges  Cost of goods sold   135   (135)   —   — 
Asset disposals
 
Selling, general and 
administrative   66   (66)   —   — 
Total    $ 2,341  $ (2,187)  $ (35)  $ 119 
 
11. Long-Term Debt
In October 2017, the Company entered into a credit facility agreement with PNC Bank, National Association (the “Credit 
Facility”) that initially included a $4.7 million term a loan, a $10.0 million revolving line of credit and an equipment loan with a 
maximum borrowing capacity of $1.5 million.
Subsequently, the terms of the Credit Facility were modified at various times between fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2022. Such 
amendments (i) amended various definitions, (ii) waived a technical default in May 2020 which was triggered by exceeding the capital 
expenditure limit, (iii) increased borrowing capacity and (iv) extended the maturity date. The Ninth Amendment to the Credit Facility 
in April 2021 eliminated the term loan and equipment loan. The Tenth Amendment to the Credit Agreement in December 2022 
modified certain covenants related to commodity hedging, consented to the dissolution of immaterial subsidiaries and implemented 
changes related to the discontinuation of LIBOR. The revolving line of credit matures in April 2024.
The maximum borrowing capacity under the Revolving Line of Credit is $20.0 million. Interest on borrowings under the 
revolving line of credit, as well as loan advances thereunder, accrues at a rate, at the Company’s election at the time of borrowing, 
equal to (i) the secured overnight financing rate as administered by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York plus 2.00% or (ii) 1.00% 
plus the alternate base rate, as defined in the Credit Facility. In April 2020, all then-outstanding amounts under the revolving line of 
credit were repaid and the interest rate applicable to borrowings under the revolving line of credit was 4.5%. As of December 25, 2022, 
there were no outstanding amounts under the revolving line of credit.
The Credit Facility is secured by all of the Company’s assets (other than real property and certain other property excluded 
pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility) and requires the Company to maintain three financial covenants: a fixed charge coverage 
ratio, a leverage ratio and a minimum tangible net worth requirement. The Credit Facility also contains various covenants relating to 
limitations on indebtedness, acquisitions, mergers, consolidations and the sale of properties and liens. As a result of the limitations 
contained in the Credit Facility, certain of the net assets on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as of December 25, 2022 are 
restricted in use. Vital Farms’ wholly owned subsidiaries are non-operating and do not hold any assets or liabilities; therefore, these 
subsidiaries have no restricted net assets within the meaning of Rule 4-08(e)(3) or Rule 12-04 of Regulation S-X. The Credit Facility 
also contains other customary covenants, representations and events of default. As of December 25, 2022, the Company was in 
compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility.
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 119/141

--- PAGE 120 ---
Debt issuance costs associated with the Credit Facility are reflected as a reduction of the carrying value of long-term debt on the 
Company’s consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the Credit Facility using the 
effective interest method. During the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, the 
Company recognized interest expense of $0, $52, and $488, respectively, which includes amortization of debt issuance costs of $0, $0, 
and $68, respectively.
80
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 120/141

--- PAGE 121 ---
 
Paycheck Protection Program Loan: In April 2020, the Company received loan proceeds of approximately $2,593 under the 
Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) (the “PPP Loan”). The PPP, established as part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic 
Security Act, provides for loans to qualified businesses for amounts up to 2.5 times of the average monthly payroll expenses for the 
qualifying business. The Company elected to not use any of the PPP Loan proceeds of $2,593 and repaid the entire balance of the PPP 
Loan in April 2020.
12. Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock
Upon the closing of the IPO in August 2020, all of the then-outstanding shares of Preferred Stock automatically converted into 
8,192,876 shares of common stock on a one-for-one basis. Subsequent to the closing of the IPO, there were no shares of Preferred 
Stock outstanding.
As of December 25, 2022, the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorized the Company to issue 
10,000,000 shares, par value $0.0001 per share, of preferred stock, in one or more series and with such designation, rights and 
preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Company’s board of directors (collectively, the “Preferred Stock”). As of 
December 25, 2022, there were no shares of Preferred Stock issued or outstanding.
13. Common Stock and Common Stock Warrant
Common Stock: As of December 25, 2022, Vital Farms’ amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorized the 
Company to issue 310,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of which 40,746,990 shares were issued and 
outstanding.
The voting, dividend and liquidation rights of the holders of the Company’s common stock are subject to and qualified by the 
rights, powers and preferences of the holders of Preferred Stock, if any. Each share of the Company’s common stock is entitled to one 
vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the Company’s stockholders. Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to receive 
dividends as may be declared by the Company’s board of directors, if any, subject to the preferential dividend rights of Preferred Stock, 
if any. No cash dividends had been declared or paid during the periods presented.
As of each balance sheet date, the Company had reserved shares of common stock for issuance in connection with the following:
 
  
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
Options to purchase common stock   4,634,205   4,927,033 
Restricted stock units   505,504   107,867 
Shares available for grant under the 2020 Equity Incentive 
   Plan and 2020 Employee Stock Purchase Plan   11,503,459   9,993,187 
Total   16,643,168   15,028,087 
Common Stock Warrant: In June 2015, the Company issued a warrant to the guarantor of a line of credit agreement that was 
entered into in 2015.  During 2017 the line of credit matured and was repaid in full. The guarantor was also the Company’s Chief 
Executive Officer. The warrant provided for the purchase of a total of 196,800 shares of Vital Farms common stock at an exercise price 
of $1.43 per share. The warrant was scheduled to expire on the earlier of June 12, 2020 or the completion of the IPO. At the time of 
issuance, the Company classified the warrant as equity in its consolidated balance sheets. On June 9, 2020, the guarantor exercised the 
warrant to purchase 196,800 shares of Vital Farms’ common stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $282.
Treasury Stock: In August 2021, the Company retired an aggregate of 5,494,918 shares of its common stock held in treasury. 
Upon retirement, the shares were redesignated as authorized but unissued shares of the Company’s common stock.
81
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 121/141

--- PAGE 122 ---
 
14. Stock-Based Compensation
During the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, the Company recognized stock-
based compensation expense of $6,040, $4,440, and $2,509, respectively. The related tax benefit from stock-based compensation 
during the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, was $970, $3,872, and $85, 
respectively. The Company measures compensation expense for all stock-based awards based on the estimated fair values on the date 
of the grant. Stock options generally vest ratably over three years from the date of grant and expire 10 years from the date of grant. 
Restricted stock awards generally vest ratably over three years from the date of grant and contain no other service or performance 
conditions. The Company's policy is to recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service 
or vesting period. Forfeitures for stock options and restricted stock awards are recognized as they occur. The Company records stock-
based compensation expense in selling, general and administrative expenses and cost of goods sold. During the fiscal years ended 
December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, $188, $133, and $0 of stock-based compensation expense was 
recognized in cost of goods sold, respectively.
Stock Option Activity
The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activity since December 26, 2021:
 
 
 
Number ofOptions   
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice   
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualTerm (Years)   
AggregateIntrinsicValue  
Outstanding as of December 26, 2021   4,927,033  $ 9.25     $ 48,222 
Granted   159,270  $ 12.47       
Exercised   (180,835)  $ 3.14     $ 1,827 
Cancelled/Forfeited   (271,263)  $ 13.31     $ 1,082 
Outstanding as of December 25, 2022   4,634,205  $ 9.35   5.6  $ 38,522 
Options exercisable as of December 25, 2022   3,117,209  $ 6.64   4.7  $ 31,626 
Options vested and expected to vest as of December 25, 2022   4,633,974  $ 9.35   5.6  $ 38,520 
We estimate the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option-pricing valuation model, which uses 
the expected option term, stock price volatility, and the risk-free interest rate. The expected option term assumption reflects the period 
for which we believe the option will remain outstanding. We elected to use the simplified method to determine the expected option 
term, for all periods presented, which is the average of the option’s vesting and contractual term. Our computation of expected 
volatility is based on the historical volatility of selected comparable publicly traded companies over a period equal to the expected term 
of the option. The risk-free interest rate reflects the U.S. Treasury yield curve for a similar instrument with the same expected term in 
effect at the time of the grant.
The following table summarizes the valuation model assumptions, fair values and intrinsic values of stock options during the 
fiscal years indicated:
 
  December 25,2022   December 26,2021   December 27,2020  
Expected term (in years)  6.0   6.0 - 6.5   5.2 - 6.5  
Expected stock price volatility  27.6% - 28.6%   28.5% - 29.4%   29.1% - 42.9%  
Risk-free interest rate  1.64% - 4.16%   0.57% - 1.36%   0.34% - 0.49%  
Expected dividend yield  0%   0%   0%  
Weighted average fair value at grant date  $ 3.97  $ 7.31  $ 6.83 
Fair value of stock options vested  $ 3,245  $ 2,694  $ 3,320 
Intrinsic value of stock options exercised  $ 1,827  $ 20,343  $ 1,022 
Proceeds from stock options exercised  $ 568  $ 2,776  $ 221 
As of December 25, 2022, total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock options was $5,507, 
which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.93 years.
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 122/141

--- PAGE 123 ---
82
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 123/141

--- PAGE 124 ---
 
Restricted Stock Unit Activity
The following table summarizes the restricted stock units ("RSU") activity since December 26, 2021:
 
 
 
Number ofRSUs   
Weighted-AverageGrant Date Fair Value  
Unvested as of December 26, 2021   107,867  $ 27.53 
Granted   515,191  $ 12.28 
Vested   (56,922)  $ 27.17 
Forfeited   (60,632)  $ 14.57 
Unvested as of December 25, 2022   505,504  $ 13.58 
As of December 25, 2022, total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to the Company's unvested RSU activity 
was $4,732, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.97 years.
The fair value of RSU shares vested during the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 
2020 was $1,549, $564, and $118, respectively.
2020 Equity Incentive Plan: In July 2020, the Company’s board of directors adopted the Vital Farms, Inc. 2020 Equity 
Incentive Plan (“2020 Incentive Plan”), which was subsequently approved by the Company’s stockholders and became effective on 
July 30, 2020. Initially, the maximum number of shares of the Company’s common stock that may be issued under the 2020 Incentive 
Plan was 8,595,871 shares. The 2020 Incentive Plan provides that the number of shares reserved and available for issuance under the 
2020 Incentive Plan will automatically increase each January 1, beginning on January 1, 2021 and ending on (and including) January 1, 
2030, by an amount equal to 4% of the outstanding number of shares of common stock on the immediately preceding December 31 or 
such lesser number of shares as determined by the Company’s board of directors. As of December 25, 2022, 9,824,414 shares were 
available for future grants of the Company's common stock, which excludes 1,629,884 shares of common stock that were automatically 
added to the available reserve on January 1, 2023.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan: In July 2020, the Company's board of directors adopted the 2020 Employee Stock Purchase 
Plan (“2020 ESPP”), which was subsequently approved by the Company’s stockholders and became effective on July 30, 2020. The 
2020 ESPP authorizes the initial issuance of up to 900,000 shares of the Company’s common stock to certain eligible employees or, as 
designated by the board of directors, employees of a related company. The 2020 ESPP provides that the number of shares reserved and 
available for issuance under the 2020 ESPP will automatically increase each January 1, beginning on January 1, 2021 and ending on 
(and including) January 1, 2030, by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) 1% of the outstanding number of shares of common stock on 
the immediately preceding December 31 and (ii) 900,000, or such lesser number of shares as determined by the Vital Farms board of 
directors. As of December 25, 2022, 1,679,045 shares of the Company's common stock were available for future issuance, which 
excludes 407,471 shares of common stock that were automatically added to the available reserve on January 1, 2023. In November 
2021, the Company's board of directors authorized an offering period commencing on March 1, 2022 and ending on May 15, 2022. The 
Company's board of directors has authorized subsequent additional six-month offering periods, with the most recent beginning on 
November 16, 2022.
15. Income Taxes
For the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, the provision for income taxes 
consisted of the following:
 
  December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   
December 27,2020  
Current:          
Federal  $ 384  $ 225  $ 587 
State   539   282   412 
Deferred:          
Federal   803   (2,164)   1,677 
State   (125)   (371)   94 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 124/141

--- PAGE 125 ---
Provision (benefit) for income taxes  $ 1,601  $ (2,028)  $ 2,770 
 
83
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 125/141

--- PAGE 126 ---
 
The Company’s income before income taxes is entirely derived from domestic sources for all periods presented. The 
reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax provision to the Company’s effective income tax provision is as follows:
 
  December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   
December 27,2020  
Provision at statutory rate of 21%  $ 594  $ 74  $ 2,446 
State income taxes   51   (416)   300 
Stock-based compensation   225   (2,846)   373 
Non-deductible costs   279   12   211 
Charitable deduction   (87)   (88)   (206)
Change in deferred tax asset valuation allowance   (53)   774   (138)
Revisions to prior year   212   —   — 
Changes in uncertain tax positions   347   —   — 
Other, net   33   462   (216)
Provision (benefit) for income taxes  $ 1,601  $ (2,028)  $ 2,770 
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of loss and credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company’s 
deferred income tax assets and liabilities at December 25, 2022 and December 26, 2021 were comprised of the following:
 
  December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
Deferred tax assets:       
Accrued expenses  $ 2,594  $ 1,383 
Allowances and other reserves   171   212 
Inventory   963   387 
Net operating loss carryforwards   1,503   2,220 
Charitable contributions   230   774 
Stock-based compensation   1,046   460 
Lease liability   2,624   — 
Other   581   90 
Total deferred tax assets   9,712   5,526 
Less: Valuation allowance   —   (774)
Net deferred tax assets  $ 9,712  $ 4,752 
Deferred tax liabilities:       
Prepaid expenses  $ 590  $ 784 
Property and equipment   6,273   3,610 
Operating and finance lease right of use assets   2,589   — 
Intangibles   430   279 
Total deferred tax liabilities  $ 9,882  $ 4,673 
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities)  $ (170)  $ 79 
A valuation allowance is required to be established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will 
not be realized. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon future earnings, the timing and amount of which are uncertain. A 
full review of all positive and negative evidence needs to be considered, including the Company’s current and past performance, the 
market environments in which the Company operates, the utilization of past tax credits, the length of carry back and carry forward 
periods and tax planning strategies that might be implemented. Management considered the scheduled reversal of deferred tax 
liabilities and projected future taxable income in making this assessment. The net change in the total valuation allowance for the fiscal 
year ended December 25, 2022 was a decrease of $774.
84
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 126/141

--- PAGE 127 ---
 
The activity in the Company’s deferred tax asset valuation allowance for the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022 and 
December 26, 2021 was as follows:
 
  December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
Valuation allowance as of beginning of year  $ 774  $ — 
Increases recorded to income tax provision   —   774 
Decreases recorded as benefit to income tax provision   (774)   — 
Valuation allowance as of end of year  $ —  $ 774 
As of December 25, 2022, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits, which represent the aggregate tax effect of the 
differences between tax return positions and the benefits recognized in the Company’s financial statements. At December 25, 2022, all 
of the unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would affect the Company’s annual effective tax rate. The unrecognized tax benefits are 
long-term in nature and we do not anticipate the balance of the unrecognized tax benefits to change in the next 12 months.
The following table reflects changes in gross unrecognized tax benefits:
 
  December 25,2022   
December 26,2021  
Gross tax contingencies as of beginning of year  $ 219  $ 219 
Increase in gross tax contingencies   320   — 
Decrease in gross tax contingencies   (28)   — 
Gross tax contingencies as of end of year  $ 511  $ 219 
As of December 25, 2022, the Company had federal net operating loss carryforwards of $6.7 million which can be carried 
forward indefinitely. The Company also had state net operating loss carryforwards of $0.4 million which begin to expire in 2022.
The Company files a U.S. federal income tax return, as well as income tax returns in various states. Tax years 2018 and 
forward remain open to examination by the tax jurisdictions to which the Company is subject, with certain state taxing jurisdictions 
being open back to 2017.
16. Net Income Per Share
Basic and diluted net income per share attributable to the Company’s common stockholders were calculated as follows: 
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
 
 
December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   
December 27,2020  
Numerator:          
Net income  $ 1,230  $ 2,382  $ 8,884 
Less: Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interests   (21)   (47)   84 
Net income attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. stockholders’ — basic and 
diluted  $ 1,251  $ 2,429  $ 8,800 
Denominator:          
Weighted average common shares outstanding — basic   40,648,592   40,027,278   28,667,264 
Weighted average effect of potentially dilutive securities:          
Effect of potentially dilutive stock options   2,745,161   3,290,615   4,142,947 
Effect of potentially dilutive common stock warrants   —   —   82,993 
Effect of potentially dilutive restricted stock units   64,455   3,840   21,449 
Effect of potentially dilutive common stock issuable pursuant to the 
ESPP   11,378   —   — 
Weighted average common shares outstanding — diluted   43,469,586   43,321,733   32,914,653 
Net income per share attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. stockholders          
Basic  $ 0.03  $ 0.06  $ 0.31 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 127/141

--- PAGE 128 ---
Diluted  $ 0.03  $ 0.06  $ 0.27 
 
85
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 128/141

--- PAGE 129 ---
 
The company excluded the following shares of common stock, outstanding at each period end, from the computation of diluted 
net income per share attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. common stockholders for the periods indicated because including them would 
have had an anti-dilutive effect:
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  December 25,2022   
December 26,2021   
December 27,2020  
Options to purchase common stock   27,954   4,817   826,883 
Unvested restricted stock   45,386   18,927   — 
   73,340   23,744   826,883 
 
17. Commitments and Contingencies
Supplier Contracts: The Company purchases its egg inventories under long-term supply contracts with farms. Purchase 
commitments contained in these arrangements are variable dependent upon the quantity of eggs produced by the farms. Accordingly, 
there are no estimable future purchase commitments associated with these supplier contracts and there are no minimum payments 
associated with these long-term supply contracts. The Company records the total cost of eggs into inventory and they are expensed to 
cost of goods sold when the associated eggs are sold to customers and are also reported as part of our variable lease cost.
Indemnification Agreements: In the ordinary course of business, the Company may provide indemnification of varying scope 
and terms to vendors, lessors, business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters including, but not limited to, losses 
arising out of breach of such agreements or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, the 
Company has entered into indemnification agreements with members of its board of directors and its executive officers that will require 
the Company, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as 
directors or officers. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these 
indemnification agreements is, in many cases, unlimited. As of December 25, 2022, the Company has not incurred any material costs as 
a result of such indemnifications.
Litigation: The Company is subject to various claims and contingencies which are in the scope of ordinary and routine litigation 
incidental to its business, including those related to regulation, litigation, business transactions, employee-related matters and taxes, 
among others. When the Company becomes aware of a claim or potential claim, the likelihood of any loss or exposure is assessed. If it 
is probable that a loss will result and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company records a liability for the loss. 
The liability recorded includes probable and estimable legal costs incurred to date and future legal costs to the point in the legal matter 
where the Company believes a conclusion to the matter will be reached. If the loss is not probable or the amount of the loss cannot be 
reasonably estimated, the Company discloses the claim if the likelihood of a potential loss is reasonably possible.
18. Related Party Transactions
Guarantor Warrant: The Company’s executive chairperson and former Chief Executive Officer (the “Guarantor”) guaranteed 
the Company’s obligations under a line of credit agreement that was entered into in 2015 and that matured and was repaid in full in 
2017. The Company issued a warrant to purchase 196,800 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $1.43 to the 
Guarantor in exchange for his guaranty. See Note 13, “Common Stock and Common Stock Warrant.” The warrant expired on the earlier 
of June 12, 2020 or the completion of the IPO. On June 9, 2020, the Guarantor exercised the warrant to purchase 196,800 shares of the 
Company’s common stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $282.
Ovabrite: Ovabrite, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Ovabrite”), has been deemed a related party because its founders were 
stockholders of the Company, with the majority stockholder in Ovabrite also serving as the Company’s executive chairperson and 
member of the Company’s board of directors. Since Ovabrite’s incorporation in November 2016, the Company has been deemed to 
have had a variable interest in Ovabrite, and Ovabrite has been deemed to have been a VIE, of which the Company has been the 
primary beneficiary. Accordingly, the Company has consolidated the results of Ovabrite since November 2016. All significant 
intercompany transactions between the Company and Ovabrite have been eliminated in consolidation. The results of operations of the 
Ovabrite entity were immaterial for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022.
Effective August 30, 2022, Ovabrite’s board of directors and the holders of the majority of its outstanding capital stock consented 
to dissolving the entity, and a Certificate of Dissolution was filed with the Delaware Secretary of State. As of December 25, 2022, 
Ovabrite was in the process of winding up its business activities and liquidating its remaining assets. The derecognition of the 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 129/141

--- PAGE 130 ---
Company's investment in Ovabrite resulted in a loss of $122, included in other income (expense), net in the Company's condensed 
consolidated statements of operations and a related-party receivable of $552, included in prepaid expenses and other current assets in 
the Company's consolidated balance sheets for and as of the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022.
86
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 130/141

--- PAGE 131 ---
 
Notes Receivable from Related Parties: In February 2019, the Company issued promissory notes in the aggregate amount of 
$4,000 to its founder and a former member of the board of directors that is currently a board observer, both of whom are also 
stockholders of the Company. The promissory notes bore monthly interest at LIBOR plus 2.0% and were to mature on the earlier of 
August 7, 2022 or the date of closing of a liquidity transaction which is defined as a merger, consolidation or sale of the Company’s 
assets or such time as the notes would be prohibited by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Promissory Note Maturity Date”). All unpaid 
principal and accrued and unpaid interest was due on the Promissory Note Maturity Date. The borrower has the ability to prepay all or 
any portion of the promissory note at any time without premium or penalty. In November 2019, $3,200 of the promissory notes were 
repaid.
In August 2020, the remaining $800 of the promissory notes were repaid. During the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, 
December 26, 2021, and December 27, 2020, the Company recorded interest income of $0, $0, and $97, respectively, in connection 
with the promissory notes.
Sandpebble Builders Preconstruction, Inc.: The Company utilizes Sandpebble Builders Preconstruction, Inc. and Sandpebble 
South, Inc. (collectively “Sandpebble”) for project management and related services associated with the construction and expansion of 
our egg processing facilities, including site selection, project management and related services for our potential future egg packing 
facility. The owner and principal of Sandpebble is the father of an executive of the Company. In connection with the services described 
above, the Company paid Sandpebble $962, $1,037, and $842 during the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, 
and December 27, 2020, respectively. Amounts paid to Sandpebble are included in property, plant and equipment, net, selling, general 
and administrative costs, accounts payable and accrued liabilities in the audited condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Whole Foods Market, Inc: A member of the Company’s board of directors was, until February 2022, an executive vice 
president and senior advisor at Whole Foods. The Company serves the majority of its natural channel retail customers through food 
distributors, such as US Foods Inc. and United Natural Foods, Inc., who purchase, store, sell and deliver products to Whole Foods. 
While the Company cannot precisely determine its specific revenue attributable to Whole Foods, it is a significant customer.
19. 401(k) Savings Plan
The Company established a defined contribution savings plan in 2017 under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986, as amended. This plan covers substantially all employees who meet minimum age and service requirements and allows 
participants to defer a portion of their annual compensation on a pre-tax basis. Company contributions to the plan may be made at the 
discretion of the Company’s board of directors. During the fiscal years ended December 25, 2022, December 26, 2021, and December 
27, 2020, the Company made contributions totaling $861, $651, and $401 respectively, to the plan.
20. Subsequent Events
On February 4, 2023, the Company’s board of directors appointed Thilo Wrede as Chief Financial Officer and principal financial 
officer of the Company, effective on or about March 15, 2023 (the “Transition Date”). Mr. Wrede will replace Bo Meissner, who will 
step down from his role as Chief Financial Officer and principal financial officer, effective as of the Transition Date. As of the 
Transition Date, Mr. Meissner will no longer be an officer, executive or agent of the Company but will remain with the Company 
through April 30, 2023 to ensure a smooth leadership transition, before transitioning to a non-employee advisory role through July 31, 
2023.
87
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 131/141

--- PAGE 132 ---
 
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that 
we file or submit under the Exchange Act is (1) recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the 
SEC’s rules and forms and (2) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and 
principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and 
procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and 
management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness 
of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 25, 2022. Based upon the evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level.
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in 
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial 
reporting as of December 25, 2022 based on the framework in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 Framework). Based on the results of its evaluation, management 
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 25, 2022.
Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm
 This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm due to an exemption for 
“emerging growth companies.” 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022 that have 
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B. Other Information
None.
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
Not Applicable.
88
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 132/141

--- PAGE 133 ---
 
Part III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in the sections titled “Proposal 1 – 
Election of Directors,” “Executive Officers,” and “Information Regarding the Board and Corporate Governance” and “Delinquent 
Section 16(a) Reports,” if any, in our proxy statement for our 2023 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended December 25, 2022, or the 2023 Proxy Statement.
Information regarding our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, or the Code of Conduct, required by this item will be contained 
in our 2023 Proxy Statement under the caption "Information Regarding the Board and Corporate Governance - Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics," and is hereby incorporated by reference. If we make any substantive amendments to the Code of Conduct or grant 
any waiver from a provision of the Code of Conduct to any executive officer or director, we will promptly disclose the nature of the 
amendment or waiver on its website. The full text of our Code of Conduct is available at the Investor Relations section of our website 
at www.vitalfarms.com. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information 
contained at or available through our website, and you should not consider it to be part of this Annual Report.
Item 11. Executive Compensation
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in the section titled “Executive 
Officer and Director Compensation” in our 2023 Proxy Statement.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in the section titled “Security 
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in our 2023 Proxy Statement.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in the section titled “Transactions 
with Related Persons” and “Information Regarding the Board and Corporate Governance – Board Independence” in our 2023 Proxy 
Statement.
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in the sections titled “Independent 
Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees” and “Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures” contained in our 2023 Proxy Statement.
89
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 133/141

--- PAGE 134 ---
 
Part IV
Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules
(a)(1) Financial Statements.
Reference is made to the financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II hereof.
(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules.
All schedules have been omitted because they are not required or because the required information is given in the Financial 
Statements or Notes thereto.
(a)(3) Exhibits.
 
ExhibitNumber  Description
  3.1  Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as currently in effect (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 
to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-39411), filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (the “SEC”) on August 4, 2020).
  3.2  Amended and Restated Bylaws, as currently in effect (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant’s 
Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-39411), filed with the SEC on August 4, 2020).
  4.1  Form of Common Stock Certificate (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Registration 
Statement on Form S-1/A (File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 24, 2020).
  4.2  Ninth Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, by and among the Registrant and certain of its stockholders, 
dated July 6, 2020 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 
S-1 (File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
  4.3  Description of Registered Securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 
10-K (File No. 001-39411) filed with the SEC on March 24, 2021).
10.1+  2013 Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 
S-1 (File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.2+  Forms of Grant Notice, Stock Option Agreement and Stock Purchase Agreement under the 2013 Incentive Plan 
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-
239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.3+  2020 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Registrant’s Registration on Form S-8 
(File No. 333-240258), filed with the SEC on July 31, 2020).
10.4+  Forms of Grant Notice, Stock Option Agreement and Notice of Exercise under the 2020 Equity Incentive Plan 
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-
239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.5+  Forms of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Award Agreement under the 2020 Equity Incentive Plan 
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-
239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.6+  Forms of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Award Agreement under the 2020 Equity 
Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 
(File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.7+  2020 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the Registrant’s Registration on 
Form S-8 (File No. 333-240258), filed with the SEC on July 31, 2020).
10.8+  Form of Indemnity Agreement, by and between the Registrant and each director and executive officer (incorporated 
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-239772), filed 
with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.9+  Non-Employee Director Compensation Policy (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-39411), filed with the SEC on November 3, 2022).
10.10+  Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between the Registrant and Russell Diez-Canseco, dated as of 
April 1, 2022 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 134/141

--- PAGE 135 ---
No. 001-39411), filed with the SEC on May 5, 2022).
90
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 135/141

--- PAGE 136 ---
 
10.11+  Offer Letter between the Registrant and Joanne Bal, dated as of March 5, 2021 (incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.12 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-39411) filed with the SEC on March 10, 
2022).
10.12+  Offer Letter between the Registrant and Stephanie Coon, dated as of May 24, 2021 (incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-39411) filed with the SEC on March 10, 
2022).
10.13+  Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between the Registrant and Jason Dale, dated as of April 1, 2022 
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-
39411), filed with the SEC on May 5, 2022).
10.14+  Offer Letter between the Registrant and Kathryn McKeon, dated as of January 10, 2022 (incorporated herein by reference 
to Exhibit 10.16 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-39411) filed with the SEC on March 10, 
2022).
10.15+  Offer Letter between the Registrant and Bo Meissner, dated as of June 30, 2020 (incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File. No. 001-39411) filed with the SEC on March 24, 
2021).
10.16+  Offer Letter between the Registrant and Peter Pappas, dated as of October 30, 2020 (incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File. No. 001-39411) filed with the SEC on March 24, 
2021).
10.17+  Change in Control Severance Plan, effective March 31, 2022, and form Participation Agreement (incorporated herein by 
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-39411), filed with the SEC on 
May 5, 2022).
10.18  Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the Registrant, the Borrowers party thereto, the 
Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as Agent), dated October 4, 2017 
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-
239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.19  First Amendment to Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the Registrant, the 
Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as Agent), dated 
April 13, 2018 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 
(File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.20  Second Amendment to Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the Registrant, the 
Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as Agent), dated 
April 28, 2018 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 
(File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.21  Third Amendment to Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the Registrant, the 
Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as Agent), dated 
February 7, 2019 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 
S-1 (File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.22  Fourth Amendment to Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the Registrant, the 
Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as Agent), dated 
February 24, 2020 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 
S-1 (File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.23  Fifth Amendment to Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the Registrant, the 
Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as Agent), dated 
May 11, 2020 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 
(File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.24  Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Note executed and delivered by the Registrant and the Borrowers party thereto, 
dated May 11, 2020 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on 
Form S-1 (File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.25  Sixth Amendment to Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the Registrant, the 
Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as Agent), dated 
June 18, 2020 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 
(File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.26  Amended and Restated Term Loan Note executed and delivered by the Registrant and the Borrowers party thereto, dated 
June 18, 2020 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 136/141

--- PAGE 137 ---
(File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.27  Seventh Amendment to Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the Registrant, the 
Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as Agent), dated 
91
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 137/141

--- PAGE 138 ---
 
  July 8, 2020 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 
(File No. 333-239772), filed with the SEC on July 9, 2020).
10.28  Eighth Amendment to Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the Registrant, the 
Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as Agent), dated 
October 5, 2020 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File 
No. 001-39411), filed with the SEC on March 24, 2021).
10.29  Ninth Amendment to Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the 
Registrant, the Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as 
Agent), dated April 2, 2021 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q (File No. 001-39411), filed with the SEC on August 10, 2021).
10.30  Tenth Amendment to Revolving Credit, Term Loan and Term Loan and Security Agreement, by and between the 
Registrant, the Borrowers party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association (as Lender and as 
Agent), dated December 29, 2022.
10.31  Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Note executed and delivered by the Registrant and the Borrowers party 
thereto, dated April 2, 2021 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q (File No. 001-39411), filed with the SEC on August 10, 2021).
21.1  List of Subsidiaries of Company. 
23.1  Consent of KPMG LLP, independent registered public accounting firm.
31.1   Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2  Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1*  Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as 
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
   
101.INS  Inline XBRL Instance Document
   
101.SCH  Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
   
101.CAL  Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
   
101.DEF  Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
   
101.LAB  Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
   
101.PRE  Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
   
104  Cover Page Interactive Data File (embedded within the Inline XBRL document)
+ Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan.
* Furnished herewith and not deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, and shall not be deemed to be 
incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act (whether made before or 
after the date of the Form 10-K), irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
Item 16. Form 10–K Summary
None.
92
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 138/141

--- PAGE 139 ---
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this 
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
   VITAL FARMS, INC.
        
Date: March 9, 2023   By: /s/ Russell Diez-Canseco
    Name: Russell Diez-Canseco
    Title: President and Chief Executive Officer
POWER OF ATTORNEY
Each person whose individual signature appears below hereby authorizes and appoints Russell Diez-Canseco and Bo Meissner, and 
each of them, with full power of substitution and resubstitution and full power to act without the other, as his or her true and lawful 
attorney-in-fact and agent to act in his or her name, place and stead and to execute in the name and on behalf of each person, 
individually and in each capacity stated below, and to file any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the 
same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting 
unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing, 
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them or their or his substitute or substitutes may lawfully do 
or cause to be done by virtue thereof.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons, on 
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
 
Signature   Title   Date
  
 
   
 
   
/s/ Russell Diez-Canseco   President, Chief Executive Officer and Director   March 9, 2023
Russell Diez-Canseco   (Principal Executive Officer)    
       
/s/ Bo Meissner   Chief Financial Officer   March 9, 2023
Bo Meissner   (Principal Financial Officer)    
       
/s/ Jeffery S. Dawson   Chief Accounting Officer   March 9, 2023
Jeffery S. Dawson   (Principal Accounting Officer)    
       
/s/ Matthew O’Hayer   Executive Chairperson and Director   March 9, 2023
Matthew O’Hayer       
       
/s/ Kofi Amoo-Gottfried   Director   March 9, 2023
Kofi Amoo-Gottfried       
       
/s/ Glenda Flanagan   Director   March 9, 2023
Glenda Flanagan       
       
/s/ Kelly Kennedy   Director   March 9, 2023
Kelly Kennedy       
       
/s/ Karl Khoury   Director   March 9, 2023
Karl Khoury       
     
/s/ Denny Marie Post  Director  March 9, 2023
Denny Marie Post     
     
/s/ Gisel Ruiz  Director  March 9, 2023
Gisel Ruiz     
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 139/141

--- PAGE 140 ---
 
93
1/5/26, 9:49 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017023006950/vitl-20221225.htm 140/141
