--- PAGE 60 ---
 
These price concessions, promotional activities and chargebacks could adversely impact our net revenue and changes in such activities 
could adversely impact period-over-period results. If we are not correct in predicting the performance of promotions, or if we are not 
correct in estimating chargebacks, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.
If we fail to retain and motivate members of our management team or other key crew members or fail to attract, train, develop and 
retain additional qualified crew members to support our operations, our business and future growth prospects may be harmed.
Our success and future growth depend largely upon the continued services of our executive officers as well as our other key crew 
members. These executives and key crew members are primarily responsible for determining the strategic direction of our business and 
for executing our growth strategy and are integral to our brand, culture and the reputation we enjoy with farmers, suppliers, co-
manufacturers, distributors, customers and consumers. From time to time, there may be changes in our senior leadership team or other 
key crew members resulting from the hiring or departure of these personnel. The loss of one or more of our executive officers, or the 
failure by our senior leadership team to effectively work with our crew members and lead our company, could harm our business.
In addition, our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, train, develop and retain a sufficient number of crew members 
who understand and appreciate our culture and can represent our brand effectively and establish credibility with our business partners 
and consumers. If we are unable to win in a competitive market for top talent capable of meeting our business needs and expectations, 
our business and brand image may be impaired. For example, in Springfield, Missouri, where our existing Egg Central Station 
processing facility is located, there is a tight labor market. As a result of this tight labor market, we may be unable to attract and retain 
crew members with the skills we require. Additionally, substantially all of our crew members outside of our Egg Central Station facility 
are working remotely on a permanent basis. Although we believe we manage our operations to handle remote working conditions 
efficiently, it is possible that such remote work arrangements could adversely impact crew member cohesiveness, efficiency, 
professional development, operational agility and retention. Any failure to meet our staffing needs or any material increase in turnover 
rates of our crew members may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
If we cannot maintain our company culture or focus on our purpose as we grow, our business and competitive position may be 
harmed.
We believe our culture and our purpose have been key contributors to our success to date and that the critical nature of the 
platform that we provide promotes a sense of greater purpose and fulfillment in our crew members. Any failure to preserve our culture 
or focus on our purpose could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, which is critical to our growth, and to 
effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. As we continue to grow and develop the infrastructure of a public company, 
we may find it difficult to maintain these important values. We may also have difficulty maintaining our company culture as 
substantially all of our crew members outside of our Egg Central Station facility are working remotely on a permanent basis. If we fail 
to maintain our company culture or focus on our purpose, our business and competitive position may be harmed.
Our operations are geographically consolidated. A major tornado or other natural disaster within the regions in which we operate 
could seriously disrupt our entire business.
Our existing Egg Central Station shell egg processing facility is located in Springfield, Missouri. This facility and our network of 
family farms supporting our shell egg business are concentrated in the midwestern portion of the Pasture Belt. Our planned second 
shell egg processing facility is in Seymour, Indiana, which is also located in the Pasture Belt. The majority of cream for our butter is 
sourced from farms in Ireland. The impact of natural disasters such as tornadoes, drought or flood within these areas is difficult to 
predict, particularly given the potential of climate change to increase the frequency and intensity of such natural disasters, but a natural 
disaster could seriously disrupt our entire business. Our insurance may not adequately cover our losses and expenses in the event of a 
natural disaster. As a result, natural disasters within these areas could lead to substantial losses.
Our inability to maintain our GFSI and SQF Select Site certifications may negatively affect our reputation.
The Safe Quality Food Institute administers the SQF Program, which is a third-party auditing program that examines and 
certifies food producers with respect to certain aspects of the producer’s business, including food safety, quality control and social, 
environmental and occupational health and safety management systems. The SQF Select Site certification is one of a number of 
available SQF certifications and involves both auditing for food safety issues and unannounced inspections by SQF personnel on an 
annual basis.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 60/185

--- PAGE 61 ---
32
The Global Food Safety Initiative, or GFSI, is a private organization established and managed by The Consumer Goods Forum, 
an international trade association. GFSI operates a benchmarking scheme whereby certification bodies, such as the SQF Program, are 
“recognized” as meeting certain criteria maintained by GFSI. GFSI itself does not certify or accredit entities in the food industry.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 61/185

--- PAGE 62 ---
 
SQF Select Site certification and the GFSI recognition of the SQF Program do not themselves have any independent legal 
significance and do not necessarily signal regulatory compliance. As a practice matter, however, certain retailers, including some of our 
largest customers, require SQF certification or certification by another GFSI-recognized program as a condition for doing business. 
Loss of SQF Select Site certification could impair our ability to do business with these customers, which could materially and 
adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.
Risks Related to Socioeconomic, Political and Environmental Factors
Disruptions in the worldwide economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Adverse and uncertain economic conditions, including uncertainty related to inflation, market volatility, outbreaks of contagious 
disease or pandemics, domestic or geopolitical tensions and wars, or disruption in global financial and credit markets may impact 
distributor, retailer, foodservice and consumer demand for our products. In addition, our ability to manage normal commercial 
relationships with our farmers, suppliers, co-manufacturers, distributors, retailers, foodservice consumers, service providers and 
creditors may suffer. Consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced or other perceived value offerings, including private-label 
products, during economic downturns, and an economic downturn may cause customers to be less receptive to price increases on our 
products. 
Adverse economic conditions may also affect our farmers. For example, recent inflationary pressures and elevated interest rates 
have resulted in increased costs for our farmers to build, equip and operate their farms. If our relationship with our existing farmers, or 
our ability to attract new farmers, is disrupted due to economic conditions or otherwise, our operating results may be adversely 
affected. Further, our foodservice product sales will be reduced if consumers reduce the amount of food they consume away from home 
at our foodservice customers, including as a result of inflationary concerns or other economic uncertainties. Distributors and customers 
may become more conservative in response to these conditions and seek to reduce their inventories. Our results of operations depend 
upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volume with our existing distributors, retail and foodservice 
customers, our ability to attract new consumers, the financial condition of our consumers and our ability to provide products that appeal 
to consumers at the right price. Prolonged unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability.
In addition, historically, our deposit accounts have held deposits in excess of the amounts insured by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, or FDIC. In the event of a bank failure at any of the institutions where we maintain deposits, there can be no 
assurance that regulators will agree to guarantee such deposits above and beyond amounts insured by the FDIC.
Disruptions in international trade, including disruptions due to global health pandemics, third-party labor disputes or geopolitical 
tensions, may have a material adverse impact on us, our suppliers and our network of farms, including our ability to expand our 
operations as planned.
Global health pandemics, labor disputes or work stoppages, and other geopolitical tensions have at times disrupted international 
trade, resulting in increased shipping costs and delays in the import and export of goods to and from the United States and other 
countries. Specifically, the increased demand for international shipping has resulted in shortages of shipping containers and delays at 
international ports. Currently, we import butter from a supplier in Ireland, and as a result, we may experience increased costs or 
shipment delays due to disruptions in the international trade markets and increased exposure to potential import restrictions, increased 
duties or tariffs or other factors described below. Additionally, we, our suppliers and our network of family farms are dependent on 
equipment and other supplies imported from Europe and other locations, including equipment and other supplies used in connection 
with the development of our planned egg washing and packing facility in Indiana. To the extent that import restrictions, duties, tariffs 
or disruptions to global shipping negatively impact our, our suppliers’ or our network of family farms’ ability to access necessary 
goods, we may not be able to expand our operations as planned, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would 
be materially and adversely affected.
We and certain of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to produce certain of the products we sell. Any event 
causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including changes in the Unites States’ foreign 
trade policies resulting in the imposition of additional import restrictions, withdrawal from or material modifications to, international 
trade agreements, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties or tariffs, labor disputes, health epidemics, adverse weather 
conditions, crop failure, acts of war or terrorism, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers’ ability to produce and deliver 
products and natural disasters, could increase our costs and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with indirectly sourcing goods from abroad, such as political 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 62/185

--- PAGE 63 ---
33
instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes, currency fluctuations and local business practices. In addition, requirements 
imposed by the FDA compel importers to verify that food products and ingredients produced by a foreign supplier comply with all 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements enforced by the FDA, which could result in certain products being deemed ineligible for 
import. In addition, the Department of Homeland Security may at times prevent the importation or customs clearance of certain 
products and ingredients for reasons unrelated to food safety.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 63/185

--- PAGE 64 ---
 
A U.S. federal government shutdown or other limitation or elimination of U.S. government assistance programs could have a 
material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.
The partial shutdown of the U.S. federal government that began in late 2018 and continued into 2019 adversely impacted many 
of our family farmers’ ability to access capital, as these farmers receive funding through farm loan programs of the USDA Farm 
Service Agency. The partial shutdown also impacted our ability to receive governmental approvals for products and labeling of new 
products. Additionally, many of our farmers seek federal government loans from the USDA or other forms of government assistance. 
Any future U.S. federal government shutdown or other limitation or elimination in sources of U.S. government assistance could 
adversely impact our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market efforts to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.
There is scientific consensus that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases emissions have had, and will continue to have, an 
adverse impact on global temperatures, weather conditions, and the frequency and severity of natural disasters. If climate change has a 
negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain raw 
materials that are necessary for our products, including corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients. We may further be subject to 
unpredictable water availability due to the impact of climate change, and the lack of available water may adversely affect our business 
and operations.
Additionally, extreme weather and natural disasters exacerbated by climate change may impact our business. The egg farms in 
our network are all geographically located in a region that provides an environment conducive to year-round raising of hens. However, 
if climate change negatively impacts the year-round habitability of this region for hens, we may be subject to decreased availability or 
less favorable pricing for our eggs. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including those caused or exacerbated by climate 
change, can adversely impact pasture conditions, leading to reduced yields and quality. For example, elevated summer temperatures in 
the Pasture Belt have at times contributed to lower-than-normal shell egg yield at certain of our farms. Adverse weather conditions and 
natural disasters may also impact the habitability and pasture conditions of the farms where we source the cream for our butter 
products. Further, we may incur increased transportation, storage and processing costs if we are unable to source products within a 
certain distance from our processing and co-manufacturing facilities due to the effects of climate change.
Governmental and market concern about climate change and its effects may result in additional legal or regulatory requirements 
to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases or water usage. Such laws or regulations, to the extent applicable to us or our 
farmers, suppliers, co-manufacturers or service providers, may result in significant increases to our costs of operation, particularly the 
supply chain and distribution costs associated with our products.
Failure to adequately respond to stakeholder scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance issues or failure to achieve 
our stated impact goals could adversely impact our reputation and brand.
Our business faces scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance, or ESG, issues, including sustainable development, 
product packaging, renewable resources, environmental stewardship, supply chain management, climate change, inclusion and 
belonging, workplace conduct, human rights, philanthropy and support for local communities. In December 2022, we announced a 
series of impact-related goals relating to, among other things, ecological impacts, inclusion and belonging, governance accountability 
and climate change, which we refer to as our Impact Goals. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve these goals. Failure to 
achieve our Impact Goals could damage our reputation and brand image, and our business, financial condition and results of operations 
could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, there exists negative sentiment toward ESG measures among certain individuals and 
government institutions, and several states have enacted or proposed “anti-ESG” legislation. As we continue to pursue our Impact 
Goals and related initiatives, we could face a negative reaction from government institutions (such as retaliatory legislative treatment) 
or consumers (such as boycotts or negative publicity campaigns) that could adversely impact our business.
Implementation of our environmental and sustainability initiatives, including in connection with our Impact Goals and annual 
Impact Report, may require certain financial expenditures and crew member resources, and if we are unable to meet our goals or 
otherwise fail to meet stakeholder standards or expectations with respect to ESG issues or our Impact Goals, this could have a material 
adverse effect on our reputation and brand and negatively impact our relationship with our investors, crew members, farmers, suppliers, 
customers and consumers. There has also been a recent increase in litigation and investor activism surrounding ESG practices and 
related disclosures. For example, there has been recent focus by regulators, investors and other stakeholders on greenwashing and 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 64/185

--- PAGE 65 ---
34
sustainability-related claims. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to allegations or claims with respect to ESG issues 
or our Impact Goals.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 65/185

--- PAGE 66 ---
 
Risks Related to Legal and Government Regulation
Food safety and food-borne illness incidents or advertising or product mislabeling may materially and adversely affect our business 
by exposing us to lawsuits, product recalls or regulatory enforcement actions, increasing our operating costs and reducing demand 
for our product offerings.
Selling food for human consumption involves inherent legal and other risks, and there is increasing governmental scrutiny of and 
public awareness regarding food safety. Illness, injury or death related to allergens, food-borne illnesses, foreign material 
contamination or other food safety incidents caused by our products, or involving our farmers or other suppliers, could result in the 
disruption or discontinuance of sales of these products or our relationships with such farmers or suppliers, or otherwise result in 
increased operating costs, regulatory enforcement actions or harm to our reputation. For example, in December 2019, our co-
manufacturer for hard-boiled eggs conducted a voluntary Class I recall of all hard-boiled eggs produced at its facility, including ours, 
due to a potential listeria contamination at the production facility. Our co-manufacturer elected to permanently close the affected 
production facility and move all production to a different facility, which did not have sufficient capacity to meet product demand. As a 
result, we were unable to supply customers with hard-boiled eggs for a period of time in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Shipment of adulterated or misbranded products, even if inadvertent, can result in criminal or civil liability. Such incidents could 
also expose us to product liability, negligence or other lawsuits, including consumer class action lawsuits. Any claims brought against 
us may exceed or be outside the scope of our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. Any judgment against us that is 
more than our policy limits or not covered by our insurance policies would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce 
our capital resources.
The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or other food safety incidents could also adversely affect the price and availability of 
affected raw materials, resulting in higher costs, disruptions in supply and a reduction in our sales. Furthermore, any instances of food 
contamination or regulatory noncompliance, whether or not caused by our actions, could compel us, our farms or suppliers, our 
distributors or our customers, depending on the circumstances, to conduct a recall in accordance with FDA or USDA regulations and 
policies, and comparable state laws. Food recalls could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product 
inventory, lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time and potential loss of existing distributors or customers 
and a potential negative impact on our ability to attract new customers due to negative consumer experiences or because of an adverse 
impact on our brand and reputation. The costs of a recall could be outside the scope of our existing or future insurance policy coverage 
or limits.
In addition, food companies have been subject to targeted, large-scale tampering as well as to opportunistic, individual product 
tampering, and we, like any food company, could be a target for product tampering. Forms of tampering could include the introduction 
of foreign material, chemical contaminants and pathological organisms into food products, as well as product substitution. 
Governmental regulations require companies like us to analyze, prepare and implement mitigation strategies specifically to address 
tampering designed to inflict widespread public health harm. If we do not adequately address the possibility, or any actual instance, of 
product tampering, we could face possible seizure or recall of our products and the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, which 
could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.
Our operations are subject to FDA and USDA federal regulations, as well as other state and local regulations, and there is no 
assurance that we will be in compliance with all applicable regulations.
Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the USDA and other federal, state and local authorities. With 
respect to eggs in particular, the FDA and the USDA split jurisdiction depending on the type of product involved. While the FDA has 
primary responsibility for the regulation of shell eggs, the USDA has primary responsibility for the regulation of dried, frozen or liquid 
eggs and other “egg products,” subject to certain exceptions. Specifically, our shell eggs, butter and hard-boiled egg products are 
subject to the requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, including by the Food Safety Modernization Act 
of 2011, or FSMA, and regulations promulgated thereunder by the FDA. This comprehensive regulatory program governs, among other 
things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging, labeling and safety of most food products. The FDA requires that 
facilities that manufacture food products comply with a range of requirements, including but not limited to hazard analysis and 
preventive controls regulations, cGMPs and supplier verification requirements. Our shell egg operations are further subject to FDA 
regulatory requirements governing the production, storage and transportation of shell eggs for the control of salmonella. FDA-inspected 
processing facilities are subject to periodic and “for cause” inspection by federal, state and local authorities. We are subject to 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 66/185

--- PAGE 67 ---
35
requirements under FSMA’s foreign supplier verification program and import tariffs, bond and other requirements imposed by U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection for our butter products, which are imported from Ireland. 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 67/185

--- PAGE 68 ---
 
In addition, certain of our products, such as our liquid whole egg products, are subject to regulation by the USDA, including 
facility registration, inspection, manufacturing and labeling requirements. We do not control the manufacturing processes of, and rely 
upon, our co-manufacturers for compliance with cGMPs and other regulatory requirements for the manufacturing of our products that 
is conducted by our co-manufacturers. If we or our co-manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture products that conform to our 
specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA, the USDA or others, we or they may be subject to adverse 
inspectional findings or enforcement actions, which could materially impact our ability to market our products, result in our co-
manufacturers’ inability to continue manufacturing for us, result in a recall of our products that have already been distributed and result 
in damage to our brand and reputation. For example, in December 2019, our co-manufacturer for hard-boiled eggs conducted a 
voluntary Class I recall of all hard-boiled eggs produced at its facility, including ours, due to a potential listeria contamination at the 
production facility. We rely upon our co-manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. 
If the FDA, the USDA or another regulatory authority determines that we or these co-manufacturers have not complied with the 
applicable regulatory requirements, our business may be adversely impacted.
Our liquid whole eggs are subject to the requirements of the Egg Products Inspection Act, or EPIA, and regulations promulgated 
thereunder by the USDA. The USDA has comprehensive regulations in place that apply to establishments that break, dry and process 
shell eggs into liquid egg products. This regulatory scheme governs the manufacturing, processing, pasteurizations, packaging, labeling 
and safety of egg products. Under the EPIA and USDA regulations, establishments that manufacture egg products must comply with 
the USDA’s requirements for sanitation, temperature control, pasteurization and labeling. In addition, in September 2020, the USDA 
announced that it had finalized its Egg Products Inspection Rule. Pursuant to the regulatory requirements established by this rule, we 
anticipate that our co-manufacturers’ liquid whole egg establishment will be required to implement Hazard Analysis and Critical 
Control Point plans within two years after publication of the final rule in the Federal Register and will further be required to implement 
Sanitary Standard Operating Procedures within one year after publication in the Federal Register. We do not control the manufacturing 
processes of, and rely upon, our co-manufacturers for compliance with USDA regulations for the manufacturing of our liquid whole 
egg products, which is conducted by our co-manufacturers. If we or our co-manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture products 
that conform to our specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the USDA or others, we or they may be subject to adverse 
inspectional findings or enforcement actions, which could materially impact our ability to market our products, could result in our co-
manufacturers’ inability to continue manufacturing for us, or could result in a recall of our product that has already been distributed. In 
addition, we rely upon our co-manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the 
USDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority determines that we or these co-manufacturers have not complied with the 
applicable regulatory requirements, our business may be materially impacted.
Our products that are labeled as “organic” are subject to the requirements of the Organic Foods Production Act, or OFPA, and 
the USDA’s National Organic Program, or NOP, regulations. The OFPA is a comprehensive regulatory scheme that mandates certain 
practices and prohibits other practices pertaining to the raising of animals and handling and processing of food products. We, and our 
network of family farms and co-manufacturers, contract with NOP-accredited certifying agents to ensure that our organic products are 
produced in compliance with the OFPA and NOP regulations. We do not control the farms where our products are raised and rely on 
the farms for compliance with the on-farm requirements of the OFPA and NOP regulations. Similarly, we do not control the 
manufacturing processes of, and we rely upon, our co-manufacturers for compliance with requirements of the OFPA and NOP 
regulations with respect to organic products handled and manufactured by our co-manufacturers. If we, the farms or the co-
manufacturers cannot successfully raise and manufacture products that meet the strict regulatory requirements of the OFPA and the 
NOP, we or they may be subject to adverse inspectional findings or enforcement actions, which could materially impact our ability to 
market our products as “organic,” could result in the farms or co-manufacturers’ inability to continue to raise farm products or 
manufacture food for us, or we, the farms, or the co-manufacturer could lose the right to market products as “organic,” and subject us, 
the farms, or co-manufacturers to civil monetary penalties. If the USDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority determines that 
we or these co-manufacturers have not complied with the applicable regulatory requirements, our business may be materially impacted.
We are also subject to state and local regulations, including product requirements, labeling requirements and import restrictions. 
If our products fail to meet such individual state standards or are restricted from being imported into a state by regulatory requirements, 
our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
We seek to comply with applicable regulations through a combination of employing internal experience and expert personnel to 
ensure quality assurance compliance (i.e., assuring that our products are not adulterated or misbranded) and contracting with third-party 
laboratories that conduct analyses of products to ensure compliance with nutrition labeling requirements and to identify any potential 
contaminants before distribution. Failure by us, the farms or the co-manufacturers to comply with applicable laws and regulations, pay 
any applicable fees or assessments or maintain permits, licenses or registrations relating to our or our co-manufacturers’ operations 
could subject us to civil remedies or penalties, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, warning letters, restrictions on the 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 68/185

--- PAGE 69 ---
36
marketing or manufacturing of products, or refusals to permit the import or export of products, as well as potential criminal sanctions, 
which could result in increased operating costs resulting in a material effect on our operating results and 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 69/185

--- PAGE 70 ---
 
business. See the section titled “—Government Regulation” in Part I, Item 1, “Business,” of our latest Annual Report for further 
information on the regulations to which we are subject.
Changes in existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations may increase our costs and otherwise adversely 
affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
The manufacture and marketing of food products is highly regulated. We, our farmers, our suppliers and our co-manufacturers 
are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. These laws and regulations apply to many aspects of our business, including the 
manufacture, packaging, labeling, distribution, advertising, sale, quality and safety of our products, as well as the health and safety of 
our crew members and the protection of the environment.
In the United States, we are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the FDA, the USDA, the Federal 
Trade Commission, or FTC, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as 
various state and local agencies. We are also regulated outside the United States by various international regulatory bodies. In addition, 
we are subject to certain standards, such as GFSI standards and review by voluntary organizations, such as the Council of Better 
Business Bureaus’ National Advertising Division. We could incur costs, including fines, penalties, assessments and third-party claims, 
because of any violations of, or liabilities under, such requirements, including any competitor or consumer challenges relating to 
compliance with such requirements. For example, in connection with the marketing and advertisement of our products, we could be the 
target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising, including under the auspices of the FTC and the consumer protection statutes 
of some states.
The regulatory environment in which we operate could change significantly and adversely in the future. Any change in 
manufacturing, labeling or packaging requirements for our products may lead to an increase in costs or interruptions in production, 
either of which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Changes in marketing or labeling requirements or 
standards related to our products could require us to revise or discontinue making certain claims or utilizing certain branding elements, 
which may make our products less appealing to consumers. New or revised government laws and regulations could result in additional 
compliance costs and, in the event of non-compliance, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, withdrawals, recalls or seizures and 
confiscations, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of 
operations.
Failure by our network of family farms, suppliers of raw materials or co-manufacturers to comply with food safety, environmental 
or other laws and regulations, or with the specifications and requirements of our products, may disrupt our supply of products and 
adversely affect our business.
If any member of our network of family farms, suppliers or co-manufacturers fails to comply with food safety, environmental, 
health and safety or other laws and regulations, or face allegations of non-compliance, their operations may be disrupted and our 
reputation could be harmed. Additionally, our farmers and co-manufacturers are required to maintain the quality of our products and to 
comply with our standards and specifications. In the event of actual or alleged non-compliance, we might be forced to find alternative 
farms, suppliers or co-manufacturers and we may be subject to lawsuits and/or regulatory enforcement actions related to such non-
compliance by the farmers, suppliers and co-manufacturers. As a result, our supply of eggs and other raw materials or finished 
inventory could be disrupted or our costs could increase, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial 
condition. The failure of any farmer, supplier or co-manufacturer to produce products that conform to our standards could adversely 
affect our reputation in the marketplace and result in product recalls, product liability claims, government or third-party actions and 
economic losses. Additionally, actions we may take to mitigate the impact of any disruption or potential disruption in our supply of 
eggs and other raw materials or finished inventory, including increasing inventory in anticipation of a potential supply or production 
interruption, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings and 
investigations.
Our business operations and ownership and past and present operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and 
local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment and natural resources. Violation 
of these laws and regulations could lead to substantial liabilities, fines and penalties or to capital expenditures related to pollution 
control equipment that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could also experience in the future significant 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 70/185

--- PAGE 71 ---
37
opposition from third parties with respect to our business, including environmental non-governmental organizations, neighborhood 
groups and municipalities. Additionally, new matters or sites may be identified in the future, including in connection with our planned 
egg washing and packing facility in Indiana, future expansions of our processing capacity or development of accelerator farms, that 
will require additional environmental investigation, assessment, or expenditures, which could cause additional capital expenditures. 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 71/185

--- PAGE 72 ---
 
Future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of our present or future properties, facilities or waste 
disposal sites could require us to incur additional expenses, delays to our business and to our proposed construction. The occurrence of 
any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations could 
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Legal claims, government investigations or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties.
We operate in a highly regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. Consequently, we are 
subject to a heightened risk of legal claims, government investigations or other regulatory enforcement actions. Although we have 
implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that 
our crew members, consultants, independent contractors, farmers, suppliers, vendors, co-manufacturers or distributors will not violate 
our policies and procedures. Moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or 
otherwise, of laws and regulations. Legal claims, government investigations or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure 
or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially 
and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the costs and other effects of 
defending potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us may be difficult to determine and could adversely 
affect our financial condition and operating results.
Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and have a negative impact on our reputation or business.
We are not currently party to any material litigation. However, from time to time, we may be party to various claims and legal 
proceedings. We evaluate these claims and litigation proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if 
possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we may establish reserves, as appropriate. These 
assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of 
management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from any assessments and estimates we may make.
Even when not merited, the defense of claims and litigation proceedings may divert our management’s attention, and we may 
incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. The results of litigation and other legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, and 
adverse judgments or settlements in any of these legal disputes may result in adverse monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief 
against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Any claims or legal 
proceedings, even if fully indemnified or insured, could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or to 
obtain adequate insurance in the future.
Furthermore, while we maintain insurance for certain potential liabilities, such insurance does not cover all types and amounts of 
potential liabilities and is subject to various exclusions and caps on amounts recoverable. Even if we believe a claim is covered by 
insurance, insurers may dispute our entitlement to recovery for a variety of potential reasons, which may affect the timing and, if the 
insurers prevail, the amount of our recovery.
We and the third parties with whom we work are subject to stringent and evolving U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, rules, 
contractual obligations, industry standards, policies and other obligations related to data privacy and security. Our, or such third 
parties’ actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could lead to regulatory investigations or actions, litigation 
(including class claims) and mass arbitration demands, fines and penalties, disruptions of our business operations, reputational 
harm, loss of revenue or profits and other adverse consequences.
In the ordinary course of business, we collect, receive, store, process, generate, use, transfer, disclose, make accessible, protect, 
secure, dispose of, transmit and share (collectively, process) personal data and other sensitive information, including proprietary and 
confidential business data, trade secrets, intellectual property, sensitive third-party data, business plans, transactions and financial 
information, which we collectively refer to as “sensitive data.”
Our data processing activities subject us to numerous data privacy and security obligations, such as various laws, regulations, 
guidance, industry standards, external and internal privacy and security policies, contractual requirements and other obligations relating 
to data privacy and security, reach notification laws, consumer protection laws (e.g., Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act) 
and other similar laws (e.g., wiretapping laws). Additionally, under various privacy laws and other obligations, we may be required to 
obtain certain consents to process personal data. For example, some of our data processing practices have been, and may in the future 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 72/185

--- PAGE 73 ---
38
continue to be, subject to challenges or lawsuits under data privacy and communication laws, including, for example, challenges based 
on wiretapping laws for obtaining consumer information from third parties through various methods, including chatbot and session 
replay providers, or via third-party marketing pixels, as has occurred. These practices may continue to 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 73/185

--- PAGE 74 ---
 
be subject to increased challenges by class action plaintiffs. Our inability or failure to obtain consent for these practices could result in 
adverse consequences, including class action litigation and mass arbitration demands.
Furthermore, numerous U.S. states have enacted comprehensive privacy laws that impose certain obligations on covered 
businesses, including providing specific disclosures in privacy notices and affording residents with certain rights concerning their 
personal data. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, or CCPA, applies to personal data of consumers, business 
representatives, and employees who are California residents, and requires businesses to provide specific disclosures in privacy notices 
and honor requests of such individuals to exercise certain privacy rights. The CCPA provides for fines for intentional violations and 
allows private litigants affected by certain data breaches to recover significant statutory damages. Similar laws are being considered in 
several other states, as well as at the federal and local levels, and we expect more states to pass similar laws in the future.
Our compliance with these legal requirements and obligations, together with any policies or practices that we have or may 
implement to further secure and protect sensitive data, could limit our ability to utilize data that may be valuable to our business.
Our employees and personnel use generative artificial intelligence, or generative AI, technologies to perform their work, and the 
disclosure and use of personal data in generative AI technologies is subject to various privacy laws and other privacy obligations. 
Governments have passed and are likely to pass additional laws regulating generative AI. Our use of this technology could result in 
additional compliance costs, regulatory investigations and actions, and lawsuits.
We may at times fail (or be perceived to have failed) in our efforts to comply with our data privacy and security obligations. 
Moreover, despite our efforts, our crew members or third parties with whom we work may fail to comply with such obligations, which 
could negatively impact our business operations. If we or the third parties with whom we work fail, or are perceived to have failed, to 
address or comply with applicable data privacy and security obligations, we could face significant consequences, including but not 
limited to: government enforcement actions (e.g., investigations, fines, penalties, audits, inspections and similar actions), litigation 
(including class-action claims) and mass arbitration demands, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, bans on processing 
personal data and orders to destroy or not use personal data. In particular, plaintiffs have become increasingly active in bringing 
privacy-related claims against companies, including class claims and mass arbitration demands. Some of these claims allow for the 
recovery of statutory damages on a per violation basis, and, if viable, carry the potential for significant statutory damages depending on 
the volume of data and the number of violations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, 
or financial condition, including but not limited to loss of customers, inability to process personal data or to operate in certain 
jurisdictions, limited ability to develop or commercialize our products, expenditure of time and resources to defend any claim or 
inquiry, adverse publicity or substantial changes to our business model or operations.
Risks Related to Our Status as a Certified B Corporation and Public Benefit Corporation
Our status as a public benefit corporation and a Certified B Corporation may not result in the benefits that we anticipate, and we 
may be unable to maintain our Certified B Corporation status.
We have elected to be classified as a public benefit corporation under Delaware law. As a public benefit corporation, we are 
required to balance the financial interests of our stockholders with the best interests of those stakeholders materially affected by our 
conduct, including particularly those affected by the specific benefit purposes set forth in our amended and restated certificate of 
incorporation. There is no assurance that the expected positive impact from being a public benefit corporation will be realized and our 
status as a public benefit corporation and compliance with our related obligations could negatively impact our ability to provide the 
highest possible return to our stockholders.
As a public benefit corporation, we are required to publicly disclose a report at least biennially on our overall public benefit 
performance and on our assessment of our success in achieving our specific public benefit purpose. If we are not timely or are unable to 
provide this report, or if the report is not viewed favorably by parties doing business with us or regulators or others reviewing our 
credentials, our reputation and status as a public benefit corporation may be harmed.
While not required by Delaware law or the terms of our certificate of incorporation, we have elected to have our social and 
environmental performance, accountability and transparency assessed against the proprietary criteria established by B Lab, an 
independent non-profit organization. As a result of this assessment, we have been designated as a “Certified B Corporation,” which 
refers to companies that are certified as meeting certain levels of social and environmental performance, accountability and 
transparency. The standards for Certified B Corporation certification are B Lab and may change over time, and our continued 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 74/185

--- PAGE 75 ---
39
certification is at the sole discretion of B Lab. To maintain our certification, we are required to update our assessment and verify our 
updated score with B Lab every three years. We were most recently recertified as a Certified B Corporation in January 2022, and we 
are in the process of seeking recertification as a Certified B Corporation. Our reputation could be harmed if we lose our status as a 
Certified B Corporation, whether by our choice or by our failure to continue to meet the certification requirements, particularly if that 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 75/185

--- PAGE 76 ---
 
failure or change were to create a perception that we are more focused on financial performance and are no longer as committed to the 
values shared by Certified B Corporations, or if our publicly reported Certified B Corporation score declines. Conversely, our status as 
a public benefit corporation or Certified B Corporation could result in negative scrutiny from government institutions, consumers, 
stockholders or others critical of our stakeholder focus.
As a public benefit corporation, our directors’ fiduciary duty to balance a variety of interests may result in actions that do not 
maximize stockholder value.
As a public benefit corporation, our Board of Directors has a duty to balance (i) the pecuniary interest of our stockholders, (ii) the 
best interests of those materially affected by our conduct and (iii) the specific public benefits identified in our amended and restated 
certificate of incorporation. While we believe our public benefit designation and associated obligations will benefit our stockholders, in 
balancing these interests our Board of Directors may take actions that do not maximize stockholder value. Any benefits to stockholders 
resulting from our public benefit purposes may not materialize within the timeframe we expect or at all and may have negative effects. 
For example:
• we may choose to revise our policies in ways that we believe will be beneficial to stakeholders other than our stockholders, 
including farmers, suppliers, crew members and local communities, even though the changes may be costly;
• we may take actions, such as building state-of-the-art facilities with technology and quality control mechanisms that 
exceed the requirements of USDA and the FDA, even though these actions may be more costly than other alternatives;
• we may be influenced to pursue programs and services to demonstrate our commitment to the communities to which we 
serve and bringing ethical food to the table, even though there may be no immediate return to our stockholders; or
• in responding to a possible proposal to acquire the company, our Board of Directors may be influenced by the interests of 
stakeholders other than our stockholders, including farmers, suppliers, crew members and local communities, whose 
interests may be different from the interests of our stockholders.
We may be unable to fully realize the benefits we expect from actions taken to benefit our stakeholders, including farmers, 
suppliers, crew members and local communities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of 
operations, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.
As a public benefit corporation, we may be subject to increased derivative litigation concerning our duty to balance stockholder and 
public benefit interests, the occurrence of which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
As a Delaware public benefit corporation, our stockholders (if they, individually or collectively, own the lesser of at least 2% of 
our outstanding capital stock or shares having at least $2 million in market value) are entitled to file a derivative lawsuit claiming that 
our directors failed to balance stockholder and public benefit interests. This potential liability does not exist for traditional corporations. 
Therefore, we may be subject to the possibility of increased derivative litigation, which would require the attention of management and, 
as a result, may adversely impact management’s ability to effectively execute our strategy. Any such derivative litigation may be costly 
and have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
Risks Related to Being a Public Company
We recently identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remediate this material 
weakness or maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may not be able to accurately 
report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a 
result, the value of our common stock.
We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of the 
applicable listing standards of the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC, or Nasdaq. We expect that the requirements of these rules and 
regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-
consuming and costly, and place strain on our personnel, systems and resources.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, 
disclosure controls and procedures. We are required, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, to furnish a report 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 76/185

--- PAGE 77 ---
40
by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Pursuant to Section 404, our 
independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 77/185

--- PAGE 78 ---
 
This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over 
financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that 
results in more than a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented 
or detected on a timely basis. 
As further detailed in Part II, Item 9A of this Annual Report, in the process of assessing our internal control over financial 
reporting, management identified deficiencies in controls to ensure the accuracy of the inputs (e.g., price and/or quantity) related to the 
sales order entry and invoicing processes impacting revenue and accounts receivable that resulted in a material weakness. Management 
concluded that this material weakness was primarily due to ineffective risk assessment related to the selection and development of 
appropriate control activities in the revenue process due to not having a sufficient number of trained resources with expertise in and 
responsibility for the design, implementation, operation, and documentation of internal control over financial reporting. As a result of 
the material weakness identified, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of 
December 29, 2024. As disclosed in Part II, Item 9A of this Annual Report, we are implementing additional controls to remediate this 
material weakness. However, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely manner, and such remediation 
efforts could require increased management time and attention and resources.
We cannot provide assurance that there will not be further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control 
over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain or develop effective controls or any difficulties encountered in their 
implementation or improvement could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in 
a restatement of our financial statements for prior periods. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting 
also could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual independent registered public accounting firm 
attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Ineffective disclosure controls and 
procedures or internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness 
of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by 
Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial 
reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future 
access to the capital markets.
Effective as of December 29, 2024, we are a large accelerated filer, which has increased and will continue to increase our costs and 
demands on management.
On December 29, 2024, we ceased to be an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 
2012. Due to our exit from emerging growth company status and as a large accelerated filer, we are subject to certain disclosure and 
compliance requirements that apply to other public companies but did not previously apply to us due to our status as an emerging 
growth company. These requirements include, but are not limited to:
• the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal control 
over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;
• compliance with any requirements that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding 
mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report providing additional information about the audit and 
the financial statements;
• compliance with the required public company effective dates for any new or revised accounting standards;
• the requirement that we provide full and more detailed disclosures regarding executive compensation; and
• the requirement that we hold a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and obtain stockholder approval of 
any golden parachute payments not previously approved.
Ongoing compliance with the additional requirements of being a large accelerated filer has increased our legal and financial 
compliance costs and may cause management and other personnel to divert attention from operational and other business matters to 
devote increased time to public company reporting requirements. Due to the complexity and logistical difficulty of implementing the 
standards, rules and regulations that apply to a large accelerated filer, there is an increased risk that we may be found to be in non-
compliance with such standards, rules and regulations or to have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls 
over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting could 
materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could cause a decline in the trading price 
of our common stock. In addition, if we are not able to comply with changing requirements in a timely manner, we could be subject to 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 78/185

--- PAGE 79 ---
41
sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and 
management resources.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 79/185

--- PAGE 80 ---
 
Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Information Technology and Intellectual Property
If our data or information technology systems, or the data or information technology systems of third parties with whom we work, 
are or were compromised, we could experience adverse consequences, including but not limited to regulatory investigations or 
actions, litigation, fines and penalties, disruption of our business operations, reputational harm and loss of revenue or profits.
In the ordinary course of our business, we and the third parties with whom we work process sensitive data, and, as a result, we 
and the third parties with whom we work face a variety of evolving threats that could cause security incidents. We also use mobile 
devices, social networking and other online activities and third parties to connect with our crew members, farmers, suppliers, co-
manufacturers, distributors, customers and consumers. Cyber-attacks, malicious internet-based activity, online and offline fraud and 
other similar activities threaten the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our sensitive data and information technology systems, 
and those of the third parties with whom we work. Such threats are prevalent and continue to rise, are increasingly difficult to detect, 
and come from a variety of sources, including, but not limited to traditional computer “hackers,” threat actors, “hacktivists,” organized 
criminal threat actors, personnel (such as through theft or misuse), sophisticated nation states and nation-state-supported actors. 
Further, as we pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we have, and will continue to, expand and improve 
our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk.
Some actors now engage and are expected to continue to engage in cyber-attacks, including without limitation nation-state actors 
for geopolitical reasons and in conjunction with military conflicts and defense activities. During times of war and other major conflicts, 
we and the third parties with whom we work may be vulnerable to a heightened risk of these attacks, including retaliatory cyber-
attacks, that could materially disrupt our systems and operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute our services.
We and the third parties with whom we work are subject to a variety of evolving threats, including but not limited to social-
engineering attacks (including through deep fakes, which may be increasingly more difficult to identify as fake, and phishing attacks), 
malicious code (such as viruses and worms), malware (including as a result of advanced persistent threat intrusions), denial-of-service 
attacks, credential stuffing, credential harvesting, personnel misconduct or error, ransomware attacks, supply-chain attacks, software 
bugs, server malfunctions, software or hardware failures, loss of data or other information technology assets, adware, attacks enhanced 
or facilitated by AI, telecommunications failures, earthquakes, fires, floods and other similar threats.
In particular, severe ransomware attacks are becoming increasingly prevalent and could lead to significant interruptions in our 
operations, ability to provide our products or services, loss of sensitive data and income, reputational harm, and diversion of funds.  
Extortion payments may alleviate the negative impact of a ransomware attack, but we may be unwilling or unable to make such 
payments due to, for example, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments.
Additionally, future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could expose us to additional 
cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated 
entities’ systems and technologies. Furthermore, we may discover security issues that were not found during due diligence of such 
acquired or integrated entities, and it may be difficult to integrate companies into our information technology environment and security 
program. 
In addition, our reliance on third-party service providers presents new cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, including supply 
chain attacks and other threats to our business operations. We rely on third-party service providers and technologies to operate critical 
business systems to process sensitive data in a variety of contexts. We also rely on third-party service providers to provide other 
products, services, parts, or otherwise to operate our business. Our ability to monitor these third parties’ information security practices 
is limited, and these third parties may not have adequate information security measures in place. If the third parties with whom we 
work experience a security incident or other interruption, we could experience adverse consequences. While we may be entitled to 
damages if third parties with whom we work fail to satisfy their privacy or security-related obligations to us, any award may be 
insufficient to cover our damages, or we may be unable to recover such award. In addition, supply chain attacks have increased in 
frequency and severity, and we cannot guarantee that third parties’ infrastructure in our supply chain or our third-party partners’ supply 
chains have not been compromised.
While we have implemented security measures designed to protect against cybersecurity incidents, there can be no assurance that 
these incident response measures will be effective. We take steps designed to detect, mitigate, and remediate vulnerabilities in our 
information systems (such as our hardware and/or software, including that of third parties with whom we work). We may not, however, 
detect and remediate all such vulnerabilities including on a timely basis. Further, we may experience delays in developing and 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 80/185

--- PAGE 81 ---
42
deploying remedial measures and patches designed to address identified vulnerabilities. Vulnerabilities could be exploited and result in 
a security incident.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 81/185

--- PAGE 82 ---
 
The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of sensitive information or intellectual property, or interference with our 
information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties with whom we work, could result in business disruption, 
negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers and distributors, potential liability and competitive 
disadvantage all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Such risks are increased by the fact that substantially all of our crew members outside of our Egg Central Station facility are 
working remotely on a permanent basis. Technologies and security systems in place at our crew members’ homes may be less secure 
than those used in a physical office, and while we have implemented controls and safeguards to help protect our systems as our crew 
members work from home, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective.
Any of the previously identified or similar threats could cause a security incident or other interruption that could result in 
unauthorized, unlawful, or accidental acquisition, modification, destruction, loss, alteration, encryption, disclosure of, or access to our 
sensitive data or our information technology systems, or those of the third parties with whom we work. For example, we have been the 
target of phishing campaigns in the past and expect such campaigns to continue into the future, with risks associated with such 
campaigns magnified by their heightened sophistication as generative AI is increasingly utilized to craft phishing attempts. A security 
incident or other interruption could disrupt our ability (and that of third parties with whom we work) to provide our services. 
We may expend significant resources or modify our business activities to try to protect against security incidents. Additionally, 
certain data privacy and security obligations have required us to implement and maintain specific security measures or industry-
standard or reasonable security measures to protect our information technology systems and sensitive data.
Applicable data privacy and security obligations may require us to notify relevant stakeholders, including affected individuals, 
customers, regulators, and investors, of security incidents. Such disclosures are costly, and the disclosure or the failure to comply with 
such requirements could lead to adverse consequences. Furthermore, given our operations and economic role, regulatory requirements 
related to critical infrastructure have and may impose additional compliance burdens on us, including, reporting requirements, 
increased costs, and other obligations.
If we or a third party with whom we work experience a security incident or are perceived to have experienced a security incident, 
we may experience material adverse consequences, such as: government enforcement actions (for example, investigations, fines, 
penalties, audits, and inspections); additional reporting requirements and/or oversight; restrictions on processing sensitive data 
(including personal data); litigation (including class claims); indemnification obligations; negative publicity; reputational harm; 
monetary fund diversions; diversion of management attention; interruptions in our operations (including availability of data); 
competitive disadvantage; financial loss; and other similar harms. Security incidents and attendant material consequences may prevent 
or cause customers to stop using our services, deter new customers from using our services, and negatively impact our ability to grow 
and operate our business.
Our contracts may not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that limitations of 
liability in our contracts are sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to our data privacy and security 
obligations. We cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate or sufficient to protect us from or to mitigate liabilities 
arising out of our privacy and security practices, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or 
at all, or that such coverage will pay future claims.
In addition to experiencing a security incident, third parties may gather, collect, or infer sensitive data about us from public 
sources, data brokers, or other means that reveals competitively sensitive details about our organization and could be used to undermine 
our competitive advantage or market position. Further, use of artificial intelligence platforms by our crew members, whether authorized 
or unauthorized, may increase the risk that our intellectual property and other proprietary information will be unintentionally disclosed. 
If we fail to identify and address cybersecurity risks associated with new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such 
risks.
The implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system could cause disruption to our business, and we may not be able 
to effectively realize the benefits of this new system.
We are in the process of transitioning to a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system, in order to support our future 
growth and more fully optimize our existing processes. The implementation of a new ERP system may prove to be more difficult, 
costly or time-consuming than expected, and it is possible that the system will not yield the benefits we anticipate. Any disruptions, 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 82/185

--- PAGE 83 ---
43
delays or deficiencies related to the new ERP system could materially impact our operations and adversely affect our ability to process 
orders, manage our inventory, fulfill obligations to customers or otherwise operate our business. In addition, implementation of a new 
ERP system will require significant resources, including the time and attention of our management and key crew members, in order to 
fully realize the anticipated benefits.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 83/185

--- PAGE 84 ---
 
The loss of any registered trademark or other intellectual property could enable other companies to compete more effectively with 
us.
We utilize intellectual property in our business. Our trademarks are valuable assets that reinforce our brand and consumers’ 
favorable perception of our products. We have invested a significant amount of money in establishing and promoting our trademarked 
brands. We also rely on unpatented proprietary expertise and copyright protection to develop and maintain our competitive position. 
Our continued success depends, to a significant degree, upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property, including our 
trademarks and copyrights.
We rely on confidentiality agreements and trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property rights. Our 
confidentiality agreements with our crew members and certain of our consultants, contract employees, suppliers and independent 
contractors, including some of our co-manufacturers who use our formulations to manufacture our products, generally require that all 
information made known to them be kept strictly confidential. Further, some of our formulations have been developed by or with our 
suppliers and co-manufacturers. As a result, we may not be able to prevent others from using similar formulations.
We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights are adequate, that our intellectual 
property rights can be successfully defended and asserted in the future or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate any 
such rights. In addition, our trademark rights and related registrations may be challenged in the future and could be canceled or 
narrowed. Failure to protect our trademark rights could prevent us in the future from challenging third parties who use names and logos 
similar to our trademarks, which may in turn cause consumer confusion or negatively affect consumers’ perception of our brand and 
products. Moreover, intellectual property disputes and proceedings and infringement claims may result in a significant distraction for 
management and significant expense, which may not be recoverable regardless of whether we are successful. Such proceedings may be 
protracted with no certainty of success, and an adverse outcome could subject us to liabilities, force us to cease use of certain 
trademarks or other intellectual property or force us to enter into licenses with others. Any one of these occurrences may have an 
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Other General Risks
Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our common stock may decline.
The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may fluctuate or decline substantially as a result of a variety of 
factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section.
Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, regulatory and market conditions, may also 
negatively impact the market price of our common stock, particularly in light of uncertainties surrounding inflation, geopolitical 
tensions, disruption in global financial and credit markets, public health pandemics and related impacts.
Sales of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.
Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, 
could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity 
securities. Many of our existing equity holders have substantial unrecognized gains on the value of the equity they hold, and therefore 
they may take steps to sell their shares or otherwise secure the unrecognized gains on those shares. We are unable to predict the timing 
of or the effect that such sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock.
In addition, as of December 29, 2024, there were 2,586,192 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding 
stock options or subject to vesting of outstanding restricted stock awards. We have registered all of the shares of common stock 
issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options, vesting of outstanding restricted stock awards or other equity incentives we may 
grant in the future, for public resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The shares of common stock 
will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent such options are exercised, subject to compliance with applicable 
securities laws.
We may be subject to significant liability that is not covered by insurance. 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 84/185

--- PAGE 85 ---
44
Although we believe that the extent of our insurance coverage is consistent with industry practice, any claim under our insurance 
policies may be subject to certain exceptions, may not be honored fully, in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not have purchased 
sufficient insurance to cover all losses incurred. If we were to incur substantial liabilities or if our business operations were interrupted 
for a substantial period of time, we could incur costs and suffer losses. Such inventory and business interruption losses may not be 
covered by our insurance policies. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 85/185

--- PAGE 86 ---
 
would adversely affect our cash position and results of operations. Additionally, in the future, insurance coverage may not be available 
to us at commercially acceptable premiums, or at all.
Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more 
difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our 
common stock.
Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and provisions of 
Delaware law applicable to us as a public benefit corporation, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or 
changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include 
provisions that:
• authorize our Board of Directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred stock 
that may be senior to our common stock with terms, rights and preferences determined by our Board of Directors;
• require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by 
written consent;
• specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our Board of Directors, the chairperson of our 
Board of Directors or our Chief Executive Officer;
• establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including 
proposed nominations of persons for election to our Board of Directors;
• establish that our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving three-year staggered terms;
• prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors;
• provide that our directors may be removed for cause only upon the vote of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding shares of 
voting stock; and
• provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though 
less than a quorum.
These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by 
making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors, which is responsible for appointing the 
members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 
of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or DGCL, which generally, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a 
Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of 
three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder.
Also, as a public benefit corporation, our Board of Directors is required by the DCGL to manage or direct our business and 
affairs in a manner that balances the pecuniary interests of our stockholders, the best interests of those materially affected by our 
conduct, and the specific public benefits identified in our certificate of incorporation. Additionally, pursuant to our amended and 
restated certificate of incorporation, a vote of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding shares of voting stock is required for matters directly 
or indirectly amending or removing our public benefit purpose, or to effect a merger or consolidation involving stock consideration 
with an entity that is not a public benefit corporation with an identical public benefit to ours. Such provisions could also limit the price 
that our investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, and they could deter potential acquirers of our 
company, thereby reducing the likelihood that holders of our common stock would receive a premium for your shares of our common 
stock in an acquisition.
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and, with respect 
to certain matters, the federal district courts of the United States of America as the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes 
between us and our stockholders, which could restrict our stockholders’ ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or 
our directors, officers, or employees.
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if and 
only if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware lacks subject matter jurisdiction, any state court located within the State of 
Delaware or, if and only if all such state courts lack subject matter jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) is 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 86/185

--- PAGE 87 ---
45
the exclusive forum for certain actions or proceedings under Delaware law, statutory or common law, including: any derivative action 
or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a breach of a fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against us arising 
pursuant to the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; any action as to 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 87/185

--- PAGE 88 ---
 
which the DCGL confers jurisdiction to the court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; or any action asserting a claim against us that 
is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The provisions would not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or any other claim for which federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. 
Furthermore, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all such Securities Act 
actions. Accordingly, both state and federal courts have jurisdiction to entertain such claims. To prevent having to litigate claims in 
multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations our amended and 
restated certificate of incorporation provides that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum 
for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act.
These choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for 
disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and 
other employees. While Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may 
nevertheless seek to bring such a claim arising under the Securities Act against us and our directors, officers or other employees in a 
venue other than in the federal district courts of the United States of America. In such instance, we would expect our efforts to defend 
the validity and enforceability of such provisions may require further significant additional costs associated with resolving the dispute 
in other jurisdictions and there can be no assurance that the provisions will be enforced by a court in those other jurisdictions, any of 
which could seriously harm our business.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
Not applicable.
Item 1C. Cybersecurity
Risk Management and Strategy
We have implemented and maintain various information security processes designed to identify, assess and manage material 
risks from cybersecurity threats to our critical computer networks, third party hosted services, communications systems, hardware and 
software, and our critical data, including intellectual property, confidential information that is proprietary, strategic or competitive in 
nature, and personal and financial data regarding our crew members and farmers, which we collectively refer to as “Information 
Systems and Data.”
Our Information Technology department, under the leadership of our Vice President of Information Technology, or VP of IT, 
and with cross-functional internal and third-party support, helps identify, assess and manage our cybersecurity threats and risks. The 
Information Technology department identifies and assesses risks from cybersecurity threats by monitoring and evaluating our threat 
environment and our and our industry’s risk profile using various methods, including, for example, regular threat assessments 
(including through interaction with law enforcement when necessary), internal and external audits, threat environment scans and third-
party threat assessments, vulnerability assessments, external intelligence feeds and third-party-conducted tabletop training exercises. 
Depending on the environment and system, we implement and maintain various technical, physical and organizational measures, 
processes, standards and policies designed to manage and mitigate material risks from cybersecurity threats to our Information Systems 
and Data, including, for example, a written incident response plan and incident response policy, business continuity plans, data 
encryption for certain data, implementation of certain security standards, network security and access controls, data segregation, asset 
tracking/disposal systems, penetration testing and required crew member training programs.
Our assessment and management of material risks from cybersecurity threats are integrated into our overall risk management 
processes. For example, our Information Technology department and third-party providers work with our senior leadership team to 
prioritize our risk management processes and mitigate cybersecurity threats that are more likely to lead to a material impact to our 
business. Our senior leadership team evaluates material risks from cybersecurity threats against our overall business objectives and 
reports to the audit committee of our Board of Directors, or Audit Committee, which evaluates our overall enterprise risk. 
We use third-party service providers to assist us from time to time to identify, assess, and manage material risks from 
cybersecurity threats, including professional services firms, threat intelligence service providers, penetration testing providers, 
cybersecurity consultants, forensic investigators, training platforms and managed cybersecurity service providers. 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 88/185

--- PAGE 89 ---
46
We use third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions throughout our business, such as application providers, 
hosting services, supply chain resources (including warehousing and cold storage) and contract manufacturing organizations. We have 
a vendor management program to manage cybersecurity risks associated with our use of certain of these providers. The program 
includes, for example, internal reviews of vendor security programs and assessments, security assessment calls with vendor personnel 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 89/185

--- PAGE 90 ---
 
and imposition of information security obligations in our vendor contracts. Depending on the nature of the services provided, the 
sensitivity of the Information Systems and Data at issue and the identity of the provider, our vendor management process may involve 
different levels of assessment designed to help identify cybersecurity risks associated with a provider and impose contractual 
obligations related to cybersecurity on the provider.
For a description of the risks from cybersecurity threats that may materially affect our company and how they may do so, see our 
risk factors listed in Part 1, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled “Risks Related to Cybersecurity, 
Information Technology and Intellectual Property.”
Governance 
Our Board of Directors addresses our cybersecurity risk management as part of its general oversight function. The Audit 
Committee is responsible under its committee charter for overseeing our company’s cybersecurity risk management processes, 
including oversight and mitigation of risks from cybersecurity threats.
Our cybersecurity risk assessment and management processes are implemented and maintained by certain members of our 
management, including our VP of IT, with the oversight of our Chief Financial Officer. Our VP of IT is responsible for hiring 
appropriate personnel, helping to integrate cybersecurity risk considerations into our overall risk management strategy and 
communicating key priorities to relevant personnel. Our VP of IT, in consultation with our Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for 
approving budgets, helping prepare for cybersecurity incidents, approving cybersecurity processes and reviewing security assessments 
and other security-related reports. Our VP of IT has over 25 years of relevant experience, including leadership roles in the information 
technology departments of public and private companies. Prior to joining Vital Farms, he served as VP of IT for another public 
company in the consumer packaged goods industry.
Our cybersecurity incident response plan is designed to escalate certain cybersecurity incidents to members of management 
depending on the circumstances, including our internal disclosure committee and our senior leadership team. Senior leadership team 
members work with our company’s incident response team to help Vital Farms mitigate and remediate cybersecurity incidents of which 
they are notified. In addition, our company’s incident response plan provides for reporting of certain cybersecurity incidents to the 
Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee receives regular reports from our Chief Financial Officer and the VP of IT concerning significant 
cybersecurity threats and risk and the processes our company has implemented to address them. The Audit Committee’s training 
includes participation in tabletop training exercises designed to test and evaluate our company’s response to a cybersecurity incident. 
The Audit Committee also has access to various reports, summaries or presentations related to cybersecurity threats, risk and 
mitigation. 
Item 2. Properties
Our principal facilities are as follows:
 
Primary Use  Location  
Approximate 
Area  
Owned / 
Leased  
Expiration 
of Lease
Corporate headquarters office 
space  
Austin, 
Texas  9,100 sq. ft.  Leased  April 2026
Warehouse space for 
approximately 17,500 pallets  
Springfield, 
Missouri  187,500 sq. ft.  Leased  
December 
2026
Egg washing and packing facility  
Springfield, 
Missouri  153,000 sq. ft.  Owned  N/A
Land for development of second 
egg washing and packing facility  
Seymour, 
Indiana  74.1 acres  Owned  N/A
Farmland for development of 
accelerator farms  Indiana  1,040 acres  Owned  N/A
 
(1)
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 90/185

--- PAGE 91 ---
47
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 91/185

--- PAGE 92 ---
 
48
(1) We have an option to extend this lease for a period of five years.
We believe that our current facilities are suitable and adequate to meet our current needs and we have begun the development 
process for our second egg washing and packing facility in Seymour, Indiana to meet our anticipated future needs.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
From time to time, we may become involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. For additional 
information regarding legal proceedings, if any, see Note 20 “Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation” to our audited 
consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. We are not aware of any material pending or threatened legal 
proceedings against us, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, against us that we believe could have an adverse 
effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 92/185

--- PAGE 93 ---
 
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Market Information
Our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Market on July 31, 2020, under the symbol “VITL.” Prior to that time, 
there was no public market for our common stock. 
Holders of Record
As of February 24, 2025, we had 11 holders of record of our common stock. Certain shares are held in “street” name and 
accordingly, the number of beneficial owners of such shares is not known or included in the foregoing number. This number of holders 
of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities.
Dividend Policy
We declared cash dividends on our common stock in June 2013 totaling approximately $0.3 million. We cannot provide any 
assurance that we will declare or pay cash dividends on our capital stock in the future. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our 
capital stock may be subject to limitations under the terms of our credit facility agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., or the 
JPMorgan Credit Facility, or other credit facilities we may enter into from time to time. See Note 14 “Long-Term Debt—JPMorgan 
Credit Facility” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information on the 
JPMorgan Credit Facility. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to fund the development and 
expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future 
determination regarding the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will 
depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions (including in our then-
existing debt arrangements), capital requirements, business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. 
Comparative Stock Performance Graph
The following performance graph shows a comparison from July 31, 2020 (the date our common stock commenced trading on 
the Nasdaq Global Market) through December 29, 2024, of the cumulative total return for our common stock, the Nasdaq Composite 
Index and the Nasdaq US Smart Food & Beverage Index.
 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 93/185

--- PAGE 94 ---
49
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 94/185

--- PAGE 95 ---
 
50
The graph assumes an initial investment of $100 on July 31, 2020. The comparisons in the graph are not intended to forecast or 
be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. The performance graph and related information shall not be deemed 
“soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under 
the Securities Act or Exchange Act. 
Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities
None. 
Use of Proceeds
Use of Proceeds from the IPO
On August 4, 2020, we completed our IPO, in which we issued and sold 5,040,323 shares of our common stock and certain of 
our selling stockholders offered and sold 5,659,250 shares of our common stock at a price to the public of $22.00 per share. We 
received net proceeds from the IPO of approximately $99.7 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $7.8 
million and offering expenses of $3.4 million. None of the expenses associated with the IPO were paid to directors, officers, persons 
owning 10% or more of any class of equity securities, or to their associates. Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, Morgan Stanley and Credit 
Suisse Securities (USA) LLC acted as joint lead bookrunning managers for the IPO. Jefferies, BMO Capital Markets Corp. and Stifel, 
Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated acted as bookrunning managers for the IPO.
Shares of our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Market on July 31, 2020. The offer and sale of the shares were 
registered under the Securities Act on Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-239772), which was declared 
effective on July 30, 2020.
There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from our IPO as described in this Annual Report. We invested 
the funds received in cash equivalents and other marketable securities in accordance with our investment policy. As of December 29, 
2024, we have used an aggregate of $35.2 million of the IPO proceeds, including $7.3 million to pay off our term loan under our prior 
credit facility agreement with PNC Bank, N.A., or the PNC Credit Facility, $1.9 million to pay off our equipment loan in 2020 and 
$26.0 million for capital expenditures. See Note 14 “Long-Term Debt—PNC Credit Facility” to our consolidated financial statements 
included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information on the PNC Credit Facility.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
None.
Item 6. [Reserved]
 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 95/185

--- PAGE 96 ---
 
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ 
materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in Part I, Item 
1A, “Risk Factors,” and “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The 
following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited 
financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Overview
Our mission is to bring ethical food to the table, and we carry out this mission by raising the standards in the food industry and 
disrupting industrial, factory food norms. Our approach has allowed us to bring high-quality products from our network of family farms 
to a national audience and has enabled us to become the leading U.S. brand of pasture-raised eggs and the second-largest U.S. egg 
brand by retail dollar sales. Our ethics are exemplified by our focus on animal welfare and sustainable farming practices. We believe 
our standards produce happy hens with varied diets, which produce better eggs. There is a seismic shift in consumer demand for 
natural, traceable, clean-label, great-tasting and nutritious foods. Supported by a steadfast adherence to the values on which we were 
founded, we have designed our brand and products to appeal to this consumer movement.
Our purpose is to improve the lives of people, animals and the planet through food. We are committed to Conscious Capitalism, 
which prioritizes positive, long-term outcomes with all of our stakeholders – farmers and suppliers, customers and consumers, 
communities and the environment, employees, who we refer to as crew members, and stockholders. We make decisions based on what 
is sustainable for all our stakeholders. For us, it is not about short-term outcomes or a trade-off between purpose and profit. We are 
fierce business competitors who believe that prioritizing the long-term viability of all stakeholders will produce stronger outcomes for 
everyone, over time. These principles guide our day-to-day operations and, we believe, help us deliver a more sustainable and 
successful business. Our approach has been validated by our financial performance and our impact on the food industry. We are also a 
Delaware public benefit corporation and a Certified B Corporation, a designation reserved for businesses that balance profit and 
purpose to meet the highest verified standards of social and environmental performance, public transparency and legal accountability.
We source our eggs from a network of over 425 family farms. We have strategically designed our supply chain to ensure high 
production standards and optimal year-round operation. We are motivated by the positive impact we have on rural communities and 
enjoy a strong relationship and reputation with our network of farmers.
We primarily work with our farms pursuant to buy-sell contracts. Under these arrangements, the farmer is responsible for all of 
the working capital and investments required to produce the eggs and manage the farm, including purchasing the birds and feed supply. 
As a result of ongoing elevated construction costs associated with our new farms, we incurred incremental farm recruitment costs in 
2024 that were required to be paid in advance of these farms beginning to produce eggs, and we expect such incremental costs to 
continue into fiscal 2025. These costs are expected to be recognized over the term of the related buy-sell contracts with the new farms, 
which are generally four to five years in length. The impact to fiscal 2024 was approximately $15.0 million to working capital. We 
believe the impact to our working capital resulting from these upfront costs could range from $7.0 million to $10.0 million in fiscal 
2025. We are contractually obligated to purchase all of the eggs produced by the farmer during the term of the contract at an agreed-
upon price that depends upon pallet weight and is adjusted quarterly for changes in feed cost.
We believe we are a strategic and valuable partner to retailers. We have continued to command premium prices for our products, 
including our shell eggs. Our loyal and growing consumer base has fueled the expansion of our brand from the natural channel to the 
mainstream channel. We believe the success of our brand demonstrates that consumers are demanding premium products that meet a 
higher ethical standard of food production. We have a strong presence at The Kroger Co., Sprouts Farmers Market, Target Corporation 
and Whole Foods Market, Inc., or Whole Foods, and we also sell our products at Albertsons Companies, Inc., Publix Super Markets, 
Inc. and Walmart, Inc. We offer 23 retail stock keeping units, or SKUs, through a multi-channel retail distribution network. We believe 
we have significant room for growth within the retail and foodservice channels through growing brand awareness, gaining additional 
points of distribution and new product innovation.
Our shell eggs are collected from farmers by a third-party freight carrier and placed in cold storage until we pack them for 
shipping to our customers at our state-of-the-art shell egg processing facility, Egg Central Station. Egg Central Station is approximately 
153,000 square feet and utilizes highly automated equipment to grade and package our shell egg products. Egg Central Station is 
capable of packing approximately six million eggs per day and has an SQF Excellent rating, the highest level of such certification from 
the Global Food Safety Initiative.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 96/185

--- PAGE 97 ---
51
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 97/185

--- PAGE 98 ---
 
To help support continued supply and further growth, we announced in 2024 that we plan to locate a second egg washing and 
packing facility in Seymour, Indiana, which we anticipate will be fully operational in 2027. We intend to build upon the foundational 
key learnings and successes from our Egg Central Station facility in Missouri with this second facility and further expand our already 
resilient supply chain. To help meet the continued demand for our shell eggs, we announced in January 2025 that we plan to install an 
additional Moba egg grading system, the primary automation technology used in washing, sorting, and packing shell eggs, at Egg 
Central Station. Installation of this new system is expected to begin in the first quarter of 2025 and to be fully operational by the end of 
fiscal 2025. 
In fiscal 2024, we purchased approximately 1,040 acres of farmland in Indiana for approximately $7.5 million. Our intent is to 
develop this farmland (along with other potential parcels to be purchased in the future) and utilize it for “accelerator farms” to provide 
learning and development opportunities within our farm network and to help ensure adequate supply for our future egg washing and 
packing facility in Seymour, Indiana, while preserving the ability in the future to sell turnkey farms to interested farmers.
Our products are primarily distributed through a broker-distributor-retailer network whereby brokers represent our products to 
distributors and retailers who will in turn sell our products to consumers. We serve the majority of natural channel customers through 
food distributors, which purchase, store, sell and deliver our products to our customers. We serve mainstream retailers by arranging for 
delivery of our products directly through their distribution centers. We also leverage distributor relationships to fulfill orders for certain 
independent grocers and other customers. 
We have experienced consistent sales growth. We had net revenue of $606.3 million and $471.9 million, net income of $53.4 
million and $25.6 million, and Adjusted EBITDA of $86.7 million and $48.3 million in the fiscal years ended December 29, 2024 and 
December 31, 2023, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section titled “—Non-GAAP Financial 
Measures—Adjusted EBITDA” below for the definition of Adjusted EBITDA, as well as a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net 
income, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP.
Known Trends, Events and Uncertainties
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) and Other Agricultural Diseases
Since initial outbreaks of HPAI in early 2022, we have been closely following the progression of the virus and working with our 
farmers, veterinarians, government health officials and animal welfare auditors to ensure that our flocks are kept as safe as possible. In 
fiscal 2024, we experienced an outbreak at one of our farms. 
In fiscal 2024, we were made aware of an outbreak of a virus called Egg Drop Syndrome (EDS) in the Midwest, and nine of our 
farms were impacted in fiscal 2024. EDS is characterized by the production of pale, thin-shelled, soft-shelled, or shell-less eggs by 
seemingly healthy laying hens. 
In fiscal 2024 and continuing into fiscal 2025, HPAI-related disruptions in the supply of conventional eggs resulted at times in 
increased demand for premium egg products such as ours, which occasionally resulted in shortages of these eggs on shelves at our 
retail customers. While we have not experienced material disruptions to our egg supply due to HPAI and EDS outbreaks, if a 
substantial portion of our farms or production facilities were affected, this could materially and negatively affect our supply chain and 
operating results. Additionally, agricultural diseases such as HPAI or EDS have resulted and could continue to result in supply 
shortages and price increases across the egg market, including shortages of eggs on shelves at our retail customers. We are confident in 
the measures we have taken to reduce the risk of HPAI and EDS on our farms and production facilities (including through procurement 
of newly available vaccinations for EDS), as well as our ability to mitigate impacts on supply. However, given continued uncertainty 
about future outbreaks and governmental responses to such outbreaks, we cannot predict the ultimate impact that agricultural diseases 
such as HPAI and EDS will have on our business.
Economic Uncertainties
The current inflationary environment may affect our business and corresponding financial position and cash flows. Inflationary 
factors, such as increases in the cost of materials and supplies, interest rates and overhead costs, may adversely affect our operating 
results. Elevated interest rates also present a recent challenge impacting the U.S. economy and could make it more difficult for us to 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 98/185

--- PAGE 99 ---
52
obtain traditional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. We work closely with our farmers, suppliers and third-party 
manufacturers to manage our supply chain activities and mitigate potential disruptions to our product supplies as a result of supply 
chain disruptions associated with such uncertainties. We currently expect to have an adequate supply of our products, packaging and 
freight through fiscal 2025. 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 99/185

--- PAGE 100 ---
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview
With cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $160.3 million as of December 29, 2024 and $60.0 million available 
under our credit facility agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., or the Credit Facility, we anticipate having sufficient liquidity to 
make investments in our business to support our long-term growth strategy. We expect that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable 
securities as of December 29, 2024, together with cash provided by our operating activities and availability of borrowings under our 
Credit Facility, will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses for at least the next 12 months and to make investments in our 
business in support of our long-term growth strategy.
Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our pace of new and existing customer growth, our 
investments in innovation, our investments in acquisitions or other growth opportunities, our investments in partnerships and 
unexplored channels and ongoing costs associated with expansions of our production capacity. We may be required to seek additional 
equity or debt financing. However, a significant disruption of global financial markets (including a disruption due to public health 
pandemics, geopolitical tensions and wars, inflation or other factors) may result in our inability to access additional capital, which 
could in the future negatively affect our operations. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such 
financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our 
operations and invest in continued innovation and product expansion, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm 
our business, operations and results of operations. For additional information, see the section titled “Liquidity and Capital Resources” 
below.
Our Fiscal Year
We report on a 52-week or 53-week fiscal year, ending on the last Sunday in December. In a 52-week fiscal year, each fiscal 
quarter consists of 13 weeks. The additional week in a 53-week fiscal year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist 
of 14 weeks. Our first 53-week fiscal year as a public company occurred in fiscal 2023, which began on December 26, 2022 and ended 
on December 31, 2023. See “Nature of the Business and Basis of Presentation” in Note 1 to our audited consolidated financial 
statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional details related to our fiscal calendar.
Key Factors Affecting Our Business
We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon many factors. While each of these factors 
presents significant opportunities for us, they also pose important challenges that we must successfully address to enable us to sustain 
the growth of our business and improve our results of operations.
Expand Household Penetration
We have positioned our brand to capitalize on growing consumer interest in natural, clean-label, traceable, ethical, great-tasting 
and nutritious foods. We believe there is substantial opportunity to grow our consumer base and increase the velocity at which 
households purchase our products. U.S. household penetration for the shell egg category is approximately 97%, while the household 
penetration for our shell eggs is approximately 9.2%. We intend to increase household penetration by continuing to invest significantly 
in sales and marketing to educate consumers about our brand, our values and the premium quality of our products. We believe these 
efforts have helped and will continue to help educate consumers on the attractive attributes of our products, generate further demand 
for our products and ultimately expand our consumer base. Our ability to continue to attract new consumers will depend, among other 
things, on the perceived value and quality of our products, the offerings of our competitors and the effectiveness of our marketing 
efforts. Our performance depends significantly on factors that may affect the level and pattern of consumer spending in the U.S. natural 
food market in which we operate. Such factors include consumer preference, consumer confidence, consumer income, consumer 
perception of the safety and quality of our products and shifts in the perceived value for our products relative to alternatives.
Grow Within the Retail Channel
We believe that our ability to increase the number of customers that sell our products to consumers is an indicator of our market 
penetration and our future business opportunities. We define our customers as the entities that sell our products to consumers. With 
certain of our retail customers, like Whole Foods, we sell our products through distributors. We are not able to precisely attribute our 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 100/185

--- PAGE 101 ---
53
net revenue to a specific retailer for products sold through such channels. We rely on third-party data to calculate the portion of retail 
sales attributable to such retailers, but this data is inherently imprecise because it is based on gross sales generated by our products sold 
at retailers, without accounting for price concessions, promotional activities or chargebacks in the ordinary course of business, and 
because it measures retail sales for only the portion of our retailers serviced through distributors. Based on this third-party data and 
internal analysis, Whole Foods accounted for approximately 23% of our retail sales for each of the fiscal years ended December 29, 
2024 and December 31, 2023.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 101/185

--- PAGE 102 ---
 
As of December 2024, there were approximately 24,000 stores selling our products. We expect the retail channel to be our largest 
source of net revenue for the foreseeable future. By capturing greater shelf space, driving higher product velocities and increasing our 
SKU count, we believe there is meaningful runway for further growth with existing retail customers. Additionally, we believe there is 
significant opportunity to gain incremental stores from existing customers as well as by adding new retail customers. We also believe 
there is significant further long-term opportunity in additional distribution channels, including the convenience, drugstore, club, 
military and international markets. Our ability to execute this strategy will increase our opportunities for incremental sales to 
consumers, and we also believe this growth will allow for margin expansion. To accomplish these objectives, we intend to continue 
leveraging consumer awareness of and demand for our brand, offering targeted sales incentives to our customers and utilizing 
customer-specific marketing tactics. Our ability to grow within the retail channel will depend on a number of factors, such as our 
customers’ satisfaction with the sales, product velocities and profitability of our products.
Expand Footprint Across Foodservice
We believe there is significant demand for our products in the foodservice channel since we offer versatile ingredients with high 
menu penetrations across commercial and non-commercial operator segments. We see considerable opportunity to continue to grow the 
channel in the medium- to long-term with our two-pronged sales approach to values-aligned foodservice operators and their 
distributors. We are working with ROOTED Food Sales Agency, a foodservice sales and marketing agency, to increase our category 
share in broad-line distribution and to access additional national and regional restaurant menus.
We are also leveraging foodservice as a critical consumer touchpoint to drive brand awareness, and we are investing in co-
marketing to reach new households. We believe co-marketing is mutually beneficial to foodservice operators because it helps to 
differentiate their brands, enhances their perceived customer value and drives loyalty.
Expand Our Product Offerings
We intend to continue to strengthen our product offerings by investing in innovation in new and existing categories. We have a 
history of product introductions and intend to continue to innovate by introducing new products from time to time. Eggs and egg-
related products generated $581.0 million, or approximately 96%, of net revenue in fiscal 2024. We expect eggs and egg-related 
products to be our largest source of net revenue for the foreseeable future. We believe that investments in innovation will contribute to 
our long-term growth, including by reinforcing our efforts to increase household penetration. Our ability to successfully develop, 
market and sell new products will depend on a variety of factors, including the availability of capital to invest in innovation, as well as 
changing consumer preferences and demand for food products.
Key Components of Results of Operations
Net Revenue
We generate net revenue primarily from sales of our products, including eggs and butter, to our customers, which include natural 
retailers, mainstream retailers, distributors and foodservice customers. We sell our products to customers on a purchase-order basis. We 
serve the majority of our natural channel customers and certain independent grocers and other customers through food distributors, 
which purchase, store, sell and deliver our products to these customers.
We periodically offer promotional incentives to our customers, including customer rebates, temporary price reductions, off-
invoice discounts, retailer advertisements, product coupons and other trade activities. At the end of each accounting period, we 
recognize a liability for an estimated promotional allowance reserve. We periodically provide credits or discounts to our customers in 
the event that products do not conform to customer expectations upon delivery or expire at a customer’s site. We treat these credits and 
discounts as a reduction of the sales price of the related transaction at the time of sale. We anticipate that these promotional activities, 
credits and discounts could materially impact our net revenue and that changes in such activities could impact period-over-period 
results.
Our shell eggs are sold to consumers at a premium price point, and when prices for commodity shell eggs fall relative to the price 
of our shell eggs (including due to any price increases we may implement), price-sensitive consumers may choose to purchase 
commodity shell eggs offered by our competitors instead of our eggs. As a result, low commodity shell egg prices may adversely affect 
our net revenue. We increased prices on certain of our products in each of fiscal years 2022, 2023 and 2024. While we have not seen 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 102/185

--- PAGE 103 ---
54
significant decreases in sales volume due to previous price increases, if we further increase prices to offset higher commodity prices or 
other costs, we could experience lower demand for our products, decreased ability to attract new customers and lower sales volumes. 
Net revenue may also vary from period to period depending on the purchase orders we receive, the volume and mix of our products 
sold, and the channels through which our products are sold.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 103/185

--- PAGE 104 ---
 
55
Cost of Goods Sold
Cost of goods sold consists of the costs directly attributable to producing our products which include labor, raw material and 
packaging costs as well as overhead. The labor cost is comprised of wages and related costs for our processing crew members. The raw 
material is comprised of those items necessary to process our finished egg and butter products and the packaging costs are the cost of 
the packaging materials our finished products are sold in. Overhead costs in cost of goods sold include utilities, insurance, inbound 
freight, storage fees related to our warehouse and depreciation and amortization expenses related to our assets used in production. We 
expect cost of goods sold to increase in the future in connection with the development and staffing of our second egg washing and 
packing facility in Indiana.
Selling, General and Administrative
Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of broker and contractor fees for sales and marketing, as well as 
personnel costs for sales and marketing, finance, human resources and other administrative functions, including salaries, benefits, 
bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and sales commissions. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include 
advertising and digital media costs, agency fees, travel and entertainment costs, and costs associated with consumer promotions, 
product samples, sales aids incurred to acquire new customers, retain existing customers and build our brand awareness, overhead costs 
for facilities, including associated depreciation and amortization expenses related to our non-production facilities and assets, and 
information technology-related expenses. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in the future in connection 
with the expansion of the business and increased marketing costs.
Shipping and Distribution
Shipping and distribution expenses consist primarily of costs related to third-party freight for our products. We expect shipping 
and distribution expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the medium-to-long term as we continue to scale our business, and there is a 
risk that such expenses could continue to increase due to economic uncertainty, geopolitical tensions or wars.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 104/185

--- PAGE 105 ---
 
Result of Operations
We report on a 52-week or 53-week fiscal year, ending on the last Sunday in December. In a 52-week fiscal year, each fiscal 
quarter consists of 13 weeks. The additional week in a 53-week fiscal year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist 
of 14 weeks. Fiscal 2024 was a 52-week fiscal year, as compared to a 53-week fiscal year for fiscal 2023. 
Comparison of Fiscal Years Ended December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023
The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of income data expressed as a percentage of net revenue for the 
periods presented:
  Fiscal Year Ended²  
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023  
  Amount   
% of
Revenue   Amount   
% of
Revenue  
  (dollars in thousands)  
Net revenue  $ 606,307   100% $ 471,857   100%
Cost of goods sold   376,381   62%  309,531   66%
Gross profit   229,926   38%  162,326   34%
Operating expenses:             
Selling, general and administrative   133,939   22%  101,728   22%
Shipping and distribution   32,435   5%  27,344   6%
Total operating expenses   166,374   27%  129,072   27%
Income from operations   63,552   11%  33,254   7%
Other income (expense), net:             
Interest expense   (1,010)  —   (782)  — 
Interest income   5,246   —   2,542   1%
Other expense, net   (250)  —   (2,813)  (1)%
Total other income (expense), net   3,986   —   (1,053)  — 
Net income before income taxes   67,538   11%  32,201   7%
Income tax provision   14,150   2%  6,635   1%
Net income  $ 53,388   9% $ 25,566   5%
 
(1)Includes stock-based compensation expense of $9,972 and $7,157 in selling, general and administrative for the fiscal years ended 2024 and 2023, respectively, and $296 and $260 in cost of goods sold for the fiscal years then ended, respectively.
(2)As described in the notes to our financial statements elsewhere in this document, fiscal 2024 was a 52-week fiscal year as compared to a 53-week fiscal year for fiscal 2023. 
Net Revenue
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Net revenue  $ 606,307  $ 471,857  $ 134,450   28%
The increase in net revenue of $134.5 million, or 28%, was primarily driven by volume-related increases of $103.0 million and 
price-related increases of $31.5 million. The volume favorability was primarily driven by increases at both new and existing customers. 
Net revenue from sales through our retail channel was $582.4 million and $445.8 million for fiscal years ended 2024 and 2023, 
respectively.
(1)
(1)
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 105/185

--- PAGE 106 ---
56
The extra week in fiscal 2023, which was 53 weeks compared to 52 weeks in fiscal 2024, partially offset the increase in net 
revenue in fiscal 2024 by $8.5 million. Excluding the extra week, net revenue increased 30.9% in fiscal 2024.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 106/185

--- PAGE 107 ---
 
Gross Profit and Gross Margin
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   $ Change   
% 
Change  
  (in thousands)        
Gross profit  $ 229,926  $ 162,326  $ 67,600   42%
Gross margin   38%  34%      
The increase in gross profit of $67.6 million, or 42%, was driven by higher net revenue generated during the fiscal year ended 
December 29, 2024. The increase in gross margin during the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024 compared to the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2023 was primarily driven by price/mix benefits, including price increases on our organic egg portfolio in January 2024 
and fully realizing our February 2023 price increase across the entire shell egg portfolio, as well as benefits of scale, operational 
efficiencies and more favorable commodity and diesel costs. This was partially offset by an increase in labor and overhead costs.
Operating Expenses
Selling, General and Administrative
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Selling, general and administrative  $ 133,939  $ 101,728  $ 32,211   32%
Percentage of net revenue   22%  22%      
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $32.2 million, or 32%, was primarily driven by:
• an increase of $15.5 million in employee-related costs, including stock-based compensation, driven by an overall increase 
in employee headcount to support our continued growth;
• an increase of $11.1 million in marketing and brokerage-related expenses due to the expansion of the business;
• an increase of $3.8 million in legal and professional service expenses due to the expansion of the business; and
• an increase of $1.8 million in technology and software-related expenses due to the expansion of the business.
Shipping and Distribution
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   $ Change  % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Shipping and distribution  $ 32,435  $ 27,344  $ 5,091   19%
Percentage of net revenue   5%  6%      
The increase in shipping and distribution costs of $5.1 million, or 19%, was driven by higher sales volumes, partially offset by 
favorable linehaul and fuel rates.
Interest Expense
  Fiscal Year Ended        
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 107/185

--- PAGE 108 ---
57
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   $ Change   % Change  
Interest expense  $ (1,010)  $ (782)  $ (228)  29%
 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 108/185

--- PAGE 109 ---
 
The increase in interest expense of $0.2 million, or 29%, was primarily driven by an increase in finance leases which generated 
an increase in interest expense related to those leases.
Interest Income
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Interest income  $ 5,246  $ 2,542  $ 2,704   106%
The increase in interest income of $2.7 million, or 106%, was primarily driven by higher interest income on our available-for-
sale securities portfolio.
Other Expense, net
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Other expense, net  $ (250)  $ (2,813) $ 2,563   (91%)
The change in other expense, net of $2.6 million was primarily driven by losses on our commodity derivative instruments during 
the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024.
Income Tax Provision
  Fiscal Year Ended        
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   $ Change   % Change  
  (in thousands)        
Income tax provision  $ 14,150  $ 6,635  $ 7,515   113%
The change in the income tax provision of $7.5 million, or 113%, was primarily driven by the increase in net income before 
income taxes earned in the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024.
Comparison of Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2023 and December 25, 2022
For the discussion of the financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 compared to 
the fiscal year ended December 25, 2022, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations—Components of Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2024.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Adjusted EBITDA
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 109/185

--- PAGE 110 ---
58
We report our financial results in accordance with GAAP. However, management believes that Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP 
financial measure, provides investors with additional useful information in evaluating our performance.
We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net income, adjusted to exclude:
• Depreciation and amortization;
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 110/185

--- PAGE 111 ---
 
• Stock-based compensation expense;
• Benefit or provision for income taxes, as applicable;
• Interest expense; and
• Interest income.
Adjusted EBITDA is a financial measure that is not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. We believe that 
Adjusted EBITDA, when taken together with our financial results presented in accordance with GAAP, provides meaningful 
supplemental information regarding our operating performance and facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating 
performance on a more consistent basis by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations or 
outlook. In particular, we believe that the use of Adjusted EBITDA is helpful to our investors as it is a measure used by management in 
assessing the health of our business, determining incentive compensation and evaluating our operating performance, as well as for 
internal planning and forecasting purposes.
Adjusted EBITDA is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not 
be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Some of the limitations of 
Adjusted EBITDA include the following:
• It does not properly reflect capital commitments to be paid in the future;
• Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the underlying assets may need to be replaced and Adjusted 
EBITDA does not reflect these capital expenditures;
• It does not consider the impact of stock-based compensation expense, as such expenses in any specific period may not 
directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations and can vary significantly between periods as a 
result of the timing of grants of new stock-based awards;
• It does not reflect other non-operating expenses, including interest expense; and
• It does not reflect tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us.
In addition, our use of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because they 
may not calculate Adjusted EBITDA in the same manner, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these 
limitations, when evaluating our performance, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial measures, including 
our net income and other results stated in accordance with GAAP.
The following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable financial measure 
stated in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented:
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 29,
2024   December 31,
2023  
  (in thousands)  
Net income  $ 53,388  $ 25,566 
Depreciation and amortization   13,093   10,490 
Stock-based compensation expense   10,268   7,417 
Income tax provision   14,150   6,635 
Interest expense   1,010   782 
Interest income   (5,246)  (2,542)
Adjusted EBITDA  $ 86,663  $ 48,348 
 
(1) Amount also includes finance lease amortization.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
(1)
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 111/185

--- PAGE 112 ---
59
Since inception, we have funded our operations with proceeds from sales of our capital stock, proceeds from borrowings and 
cash flows from the sale of our products. We had net income of $53.4 million for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024 and retained 
earnings of $83.1 million as of December 29, 2024.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 112/185

--- PAGE 113 ---
 
60
Funding Requirements
We expect that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with cash provided by our operating activities and 
available borrowings under our existing JPMorgan Credit Facility, will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses for at least the next 
12 months. We further believe that we will be able to fund potential operating expenses and cash obligations beyond the next 12 
months, through a combination of existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash provided by our operating activities 
and available borrowings under our JPMorgan Credit Facility.
Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our pace of new and existing customer growth, our 
investments in innovation, our investments in acquisitions, partnerships and unexplored channels and the potential costs associated with 
future expansion of our production capacity. As of December 29, 2024, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable 
operating leases totaled $7.2 million and future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable finance leases totaled $13.2 million. 
Additionally, in 2024 we acquired land in Seymour, Indiana for a planned additional egg washing and packing facility. We 
anticipate that we will incur approximately $8.0 million to $11.0 million in capital expenditures related to the new egg washing and 
packing facility in the next 12 months and will incur further expenditures in the years following. In January 2025, we announced that 
we plan to install an additional Moba egg grading system at our Egg Central Station facility in Missouri. We anticipate that we will 
incur approximately $12.0 million to $16.0 million in capital expenditures related to the new Moba egg grading system in the next 12 
months. We also anticipate that we will incur approximately $20.0 million to $30.0 million in capital expenditures over the next 12 
months related to the development of accelerator farms on previously acquired farmland in Indiana or the purchase and development of 
future parcels, with further expenditures incurred in the years following. Finally, we anticipate increased expenditures in marketing 
during fiscal 2025 to support progress toward our long-term marketing goals.
Credit Facility
On April 9, 2024, we entered into the JPMorgan Credit Facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the other lenders party 
thereto, which provides for a five-year, $60.0 million revolving credit facility. The JPMorgan Credit Facility replaced the PNC Credit 
Facility, which terminated concurrently with our entry into the JPMorgan Credit Facility. The JPMorgan Credit Facility includes a $5.0 
million letter of credit sub-limit and an accordion option that would allow us to increase the aggregate revolving commitments or add 
incremental term loans in an aggregate amount not to exceed the greater of (i) $35.0 million and (ii) an amount equal to 100% of 
consolidated adjusted EBITDA.
Any borrowings under the JPMorgan Credit Facility bear interest, at our election, at either (i) an adjusted term Secured Overnight 
Financing Rate or adjusted daily Secured Overnight Financing Rate plus 0.10% plus a margin of either 0.75%, 1.00% or 1.25% 
depending on our net leverage ratio, or (ii) an alternative base rate plus a margin of either 1.75%, 2.00% or 2.25%, depending on our 
net leverage ratio. We are required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the aggregate commitments that accrues at 
either 0.20% or 0.375% per annum depending on our revolving exposure. Additionally, we are required to pay a participation fee on 
the account of each lender for each outstanding letter of credit at a rate equal to the applicable rate used to determine the interest rate 
applicable to term benchmark revolving loans.
The JPMorgan Credit Facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets, including certain intellectual property assets 
and investment securities. It requires us to maintain (i) a net leverage ratio of no greater than 3.25 to 1.00, subject to two increases up to 
4.00 to 1.00 for a certain period following material acquisitions, and (ii) a fixed charge coverage ratio of no less than 1.35 to 1.00. The 
JPMorgan Credit Facility contains other customary covenants, representations and events of default. As a result of the limitations 
contained in the JPMorgan Credit Facility, certain of the net assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 29, 2024 are 
restricted in use. As of December 29, 2024, there was no outstanding balance under the JPMorgan Credit Facility, and we were in 
compliance with all covenants under the JPMorgan Credit Facility.
See “Long-Term Debt—JPMorgan Credit Facility” in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this 
Annual Report for additional details related to our JPMorgan Credit Facility.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 113/185

--- PAGE 114 ---
 
Cash Flows
The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated:
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023  
  (in thousands)  
Net cash provided by operating activities  $ 64,824  $ 50,906 
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities   (7,026)   22,383 
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities   8,654   (2,054)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  $ 66,452  $ 71,235 
Operating Activities
The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024 compared to the fiscal 
year ended December 31, 2023 was due primarily to higher net income in the current fiscal year due to higher sales, gross margin 
improvements and better leveraging of selling, general and administrative costs. The increase was also attributable to an increase in 
depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation expenses in fiscal 2024. These increases were partially offset by changes 
in operating assets and liabilities, driven by payments on operating lease liabilities. 
Investing Activities
The change in cash (used in) provided by investing activities during the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024 was primarily due 
to an increase in purchases of property, plant and equipment and fewer proceeds received on the maturities of our available for sale 
securities during the year ended December 29, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023.
Financing Activities
The change in cash provided by (used in) financing activities during the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024 compared to the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily due to an increase in the proceeds received from the exercise of stock options.
Seasonality
Demand for our products fluctuates in response to seasonal factors. Demand tends to increase with the start of the school year 
and is highest prior to holiday periods, particularly Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter, and is lowest during the summer months. As a 
result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, comparisons of our sales and results of operations between different quarters within 
a single fiscal year are not necessarily meaningful comparisons.
Critical Accounting Estimates
The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments 
that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and related notes thereto. Critical accounting estimates are those estimates 
that, in accordance with GAAP, involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a 
material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Management has determined that our most critical accounting estimates are 
those relating to revenue recognition and trade promotions, income taxes, and contingencies. Although we believe that the estimates we 
use are reasonable, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results reported in future periods could 
differ materially from those estimates. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates we consider critical. For further 
discussion about our accounting policies, see Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial 
statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 114/185

--- PAGE 115 ---
61
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 115/185

--- PAGE 116 ---
 
Revenue Recognition and Trade Promotions
We recognize revenue for the sale of our product at the point in time when our performance obligation has been satisfied and 
control of the product has transferred to our customer, which generally occurs upon delivery to the customer based on terms of the sale. 
Revenue is measured by the transaction price, which is defined as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for 
providing goods to customers. The transaction price is adjusted for estimates of known or expected variable consideration, which 
include trade promotions as well as chargebacks such as coupons, discounts, rebates, spoils, and other programs. Variable consideration 
related to these programs is recorded as a reduction to revenue, at the time of sale, based on the amount we expect to incur.
The transaction price contains estimates of known or expected variable consideration. We base these estimates on current 
forecasted activity and historical experience. We review our expected promotional rates and volumes each period, as well as our 
historical experience related to customer deductions for wrong, missing, damaged or aged product and update these estimates regularly 
until the incentives or product returns are realized. The impact of any adjustments is recognized in the period the adjustments are 
identified.
We do not believe it is reasonably likely that there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to recognize 
revenue. As noted above, estimates are made based on historical experience and other factors. Typically, programs that are offered 
have a short duration and historical differences between actual experience compared to estimated volumes, performance and 
redemptions have not been significant to the quarterly or annual financial statements. However, if the level of redemption rates, 
volumes or performance were to vary significantly from our estimates, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. We 
have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to recognize revenue during the past three fiscal years.
Income Taxes
We determine our effective tax rate by estimating our permanent differences resulting from differing treatment of items for 
financial and income tax purposes. We are periodically audited by taxing authorities and consider any adjustments made as a result of 
the audits in computing our income tax expense. Any audit adjustments affecting permanent differences could have an impact on our 
effective tax rate.
Deferred income taxes relate primarily to depreciation expense and share-based compensation programs accounted for differently 
for financial and income tax purposes. Changes in tax laws and rates could materially affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities 
in the future. Valuation allowances are recorded when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized for a deferred tax 
asset. Changes in projected future earnings could affect our recorded valuation allowances, if any, in the future.
We record unrecognized tax benefit liabilities for known or anticipated tax issues for which the benefit is more likely than not 
based on our analysis of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. However, due to the complexity of some of 
these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from the current estimate of the tax 
liabilities. To the extent we prevail in matters for which unrecognized tax benefit liabilities have been established or are required to pay 
amounts in excess of our recorded liability, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See the sections titled “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements” and “—
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted” in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere 
in this Annual Report for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business. Market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our 
financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. Our market risk exposure is primarily the result of 
fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 116/185

--- PAGE 117 ---
62
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 117/185

--- PAGE 118 ---
 
63
Commodity Price Risk
Our eggs and butter are sourced through a distributed supply chain of small farms. The price we pay to purchase shell eggs from 
farmers fluctuates based on pallet weight, and under our buy-sell contracts, which account for all of the laying hens in our network of 
family farms as of December 29, 2024, the price we pay is also adjusted quarterly for changes in feed cost, which may cause our 
agreed-upon pricing under these contracts to fluctuate on a quarterly basis. Our buy-sell contracts subject us to risk of price fluctuations 
in feed ingredients, primarily consisting of corn and soy. The price we pay for butter is subject to butter commodity fluctuations. A 
hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the weighted-average cost of these ingredients across our product lines as of December 29, 
2024 would have resulted in an increase or decrease to cost of goods sold for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024 of 
approximately $11.1 million. We strive to offset the impact of ingredient cost increases with a combination of cost savings initiatives 
and efficiencies and price increases on our products.
Costs of packaging are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict creating price risk. A hypothetical 
10% increase or decrease in the weighted-average cost of packaging raw materials as of December 29, 2024 would have resulted in an 
increase or decrease to cost of goods sold for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024 of approximately $4.5 million. We seek to 
mitigate the impact of raw materials cost increases with a combination of negotiated pricing agreements, cost savings initiatives and 
efficiencies and price increases on our products.
Interest Rate Risk
We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with our credit facility agreement with JPMorgan Chase, N.A., or the JPMorgan 
Credit Facility. See the section titled “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facility” above for additional details related to our 
JPMorgan Credit Facility. Based on the average interest rate on the instruments under the Credit Facility during the fiscal year ended 
December 29, 2024, and to the extent that borrowings were outstanding, we do not believe that a hypothetical 10% change in the 
interest rate would have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the fiscal year ended December 29, 
2024. 
Our interest-earning instruments also carry a degree of interest rate risk. As of December 29, 2024, we had cash and cash 
equivalents of $150.6 million and investments in available for sale securities of $9.7 million. As of December 29, 2024, the effective 
maturity of our investment securities available for sale was approximately 3 months and the composite credit rating of the holdings is 
Aa2 on the Moody's rating scale.
We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes and have not used any derivative financial instruments to 
manage our interest rate risk exposure during the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 118/185

--- PAGE 119 ---
 
64
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
Index to Financial Statements   
   
Reports of Independent Registered Accounting Firm (KPMG LLP, Austin, TX, PCAOB ID: 185)  65
   
Consolidated Balance Sheets  68
   
Consolidated Statements of Income  69
   
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  70
   
Consolidated Statements of Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest and Stockholders’ Equity  71
   
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  72
   
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  74
 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 119/185

--- PAGE 120 ---
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors
Vital Farms, Inc.:
Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Vital Farms, Inc. and subsidiary (the Company) as of December 29, 
2024 and December 31, 2023, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, redeemable noncontrolling 
interest and stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended December 29, 2024, and the 
related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in 
all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023, and the results of its 
operations and its cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended December 29, 2024, in conformity with U.S. 
generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), 
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control – 
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report 
dated February 27, 2025 expressed an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB 
and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable 
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to 
error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial 
statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, 
on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included 
evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation 
of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements 
that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are 
material to the consolidated financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The 
communication of a critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a 
whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on 
the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Evaluation of the sufficiency of audit evidence obtained over eggs and butter revenue
As discussed in Notes 2 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company generates revenue primarily through the 
sale of eggs and butter. The Company recognized $580,954 thousand of eggs and egg-related products net revenue and 
$25,353 thousand of butter and butter-related products net revenue for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024. The 
Company’s management identified a material weakness related to the revenue process as of December 29, 2024.
We identified the evaluation of the sufficiency of audit evidence obtained over eggs and egg-related products net revenue and 
butter and butter-related products net revenue as a critical audit matter. Subjective auditor judgment was required due to the 
highly automated nature of certain processes to record revenue that involve interfacing data across multiple information 
technology (IT) systems, and the material weakness described above.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 120/185

--- PAGE 121 ---
65
The following are the primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter. We applied auditor judgment to 
determine the nature and extent of procedures to be performed over the processing and recording of revenue, including 
consideration of the material weakness. We evaluated the reliability of information used in our procedures by comparing 
information in certain IT systems to underlying documentation. We performed a software-assisted data analysis to test 
relationships among certain revenue transactions. On a sample basis, we tested certain revenue transactions by comparing the 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 121/185

--- PAGE 122 ---
 
66
recorded amounts to underlying documentation, including invoices, cash receipts, bills of lading, and contracts with 
customers. We evaluated the sufficiency of audit evidence obtained by assessing the results of procedures performed, 
including the appropriateness of the nature and extent of such evidence. 
/s/ KPMG LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2019.
 
Austin, Texas
February 27, 2025
 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 122/185

--- PAGE 123 ---
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors
Vital Farms, Inc.:
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Vital Farms, Inc. and subsidiary's (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2024, 
based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations 
of the Treadway Commission. In our opinion, because of the effect of the material weakness, described below, on the achievement of 
the objectives of the control criteria, the Company has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 
29, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), 
the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023, the related consolidated statements 
of income, comprehensive income, redeemable noncontrolling interest and stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the fiscal 
years in the three-year period ended December 29, 2024, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements), and 
our report dated February 27, 2025 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a 
reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or 
detected on a timely basis. A material weakness related to the Company’s revenue process has been identified and included in 
management’s assessment. The material weakness was considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in 
our audit of the 2024 consolidated financial statements, and this report does not affect our report on those consolidated financial 
statements.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of 
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Annual Report on Internal 
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial 
reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with 
respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control 
based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. 
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect 
on the financial statements.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 123/185

--- PAGE 124 ---
67
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections 
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ KPMG LLP
 
Austin, Texas
February 27, 2025
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 124/185

--- PAGE 125 ---
 
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(Amounts in thousands, except share amounts)
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023  
       
Assets       
Current assets:       
Cash and cash equivalents  $ 150,601  $ 84,149 
Investment securities, available-for-sale   9,692   32,667 
Accounts receivable, net of allowance for credit losses of $691 and $550 as of 
December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively   54,342   39,699 
Inventories   23,666   32,895 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets, net of allowance for credit losses of 
$240 and $227 as of December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively   7,740   6,114 
Total current assets   246,041   195,524 
Property, plant and equipment, net   84,521   66,839 
Operating lease right-of-use assets   19,617   8,911 
Goodwill and other assets   9,153   3,904 
Total assets  $ 359,332  $ 275,178 
Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity       
Current liabilities:       
Accounts payable  $ 38,582  $ 33,485 
Accrued liabilities   31,328   24,218 
Operating lease liabilities, current   3,849   3,057 
Finance lease liabilities, current   3,932   3,255 
Income taxes payable   838   1,206 
Total current liabilities   78,529   65,221 
Operating lease liabilities, non-current   2,918   5,771 
Finance lease liabilities, non-current   8,011   10,481 
Other liabilities   572   1,028 
Total liabilities  $ 90,030  $ 82,501 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 20)       
Stockholders’ equity:       
Preferred stock, $0.0001 par value per share, 10,000,000 shares authorized as of 
December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023; no shares issued and outstanding as of 
December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023   —   — 
Common stock, $0.0001 par value per share, 310,000,000 shares authorized as of 
December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023; 44,042,355 and 41,684,649 shares issued 
and outstanding as of December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively   4   4 
Additional paid-in capital   186,182   163,325 
Retained earnings   83,113   29,725 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)   3   (377)
Total stockholders’ equity  $ 269,302  $ 192,677 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity  $ 359,332  $ 275,178 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 125/185

--- PAGE 126 ---
68
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 126/185

--- PAGE 127 ---
 
69
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data)
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   
December 25,
2022  
Net revenue  $ 606,307  $ 471,857  $ 362,050 
Cost of goods sold   376,381   309,531   252,606 
Gross profit   229,926   162,326   109,444 
Operating expenses:          
Selling, general and administrative   133,939   101,728   77,236 
Shipping and distribution   32,435   27,344   30,104 
Total operating expenses   166,374   129,072   107,340 
Income from operations   63,552   33,254   2,104 
Other income (expense), net:          
Interest expense   (1,010)   (782)   (114)
Interest income   5,246   2,542   992 
Other expense, net   (250)   (2,813)   (151)
Total other income (expense), net   3,986   (1,053)   727 
Net income before income taxes   67,538   32,201   2,831 
Income tax provision   14,150   6,635   1,601 
Net income   53,388   25,566   1,230 
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests   —   —   (21)
Net income attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. common stockholders  $ 53,388  $ 25,566  $ 1,251 
Net income per share attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. stockholders:          
Basic:  $ 1.25  $ 0.62  $ 0.03 
Diluted:  $ 1.18  $ 0.59  $ 0.03 
Weighted average common shares outstanding:          
Basic:   42,849,660   41,192,544   40,648,592 
Diluted:   45,127,128   43,312,836   43,469,586 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 127/185

--- PAGE 128 ---
 
70
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(Amounts in thousands)
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   
December 25,
2022  
Net income  $ 53,388  $ 25,566  $ 1,230 
Other comprehensive income (loss), before tax:          
Available-for-sale debt securities:          
Unrealized net holding gain (loss)   456   1,371   (1,745)
Amounts reclassified for realized losses to earnings   1   182   96 
Available-for-sale debt securities, before tax   457   1,553   (1,649)
Other comprehensive income (loss), before tax   457   1,553   (1,649)
Income tax (expense) benefit related to items of other comprehensive 
income (loss)   (77)  (383)  383 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax   380   1,170   (1,266)
Comprehensive income (loss)   53,768   26,736   (36)
Less: Comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interests   —   —   (21)
Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. common 
stockholders  $ 53,768  $ 26,736  $ (15)
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 128/185

--- PAGE 129 ---
 
71
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF REDEEMABLE NONCONTROLLING INTEREST AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(Amounts in thousands, except share amounts)
  
Redeemabl
e
Noncontro
lling
Interest   Common Stock   
Additional
Paid-In   Retained   
Accumulated
Other
Comprehensi
ve   
Total
Stockholders’
Equity
Attributable
to Vital
Farms, Inc.   
Noncontro
lling   
Total
Stockholder
s’  
  Amount   Shares   Amount   Capital   Earnings   
(Loss) 
Income   Stockholders   Interests   Equity  
Balances at December 26, 2021
 $ 175   
40,493,96
9  $ 5  $ 149,000  $ 2,746  $ (281)  $ 151,470  $ 115  $ 151,585 
Exercise of stock options   —   180,835   —   685   —   —   685   —   685 
Vesting of restricted stock units   —   51,852   —   (9)   —   —   (9)   —   (9)
Shares issued under employee stock 
purchase plan   —   20,334   —      —   —   —   —   — 
Stock-based compensation expense   —   —   —   6,040   —   —   6,040   —   6,040 
Dissolution of noncontrolling interest   (175)   —   (1)   —   —   —   (1)   68   67 
Net loss attributable to 
noncontrolling interests - 
stockholders   —   —   —   —   162   —   162   (183)   (21)
Other comprehensive loss, net   —   —   —   —   —   (1,266)   (1,266)   —   (1,266)
Net income attributable to Vital 
Farms, Inc. stockholders   —   —   —   —   1,251   —   1,251   —   1,251 
Balances at December 25, 2022
 $ —   
40,746,99
0  $ 4  $ 155,716  $ 4,159  $ (1,547)  $ 158,332  $ —  $ 158,332 
Exercise of stock options   —   737,000   —   692   —   —   692   —   692 
Vesting of restricted stock units   —   217,347   —   —   —   —   —   —   — 
Shares withheld for tax liability on 
vested restricted stock units   —   (42,566)   —   (796)   —   —   (796)   —   (796)
Shares issued under employee stock 
purchase plan   —   25,878   —   296   —   —   296   —   296 
Stock-based compensation expense   —   —   —   7,417   —   —   7,417   —   7,417 
Other comprehensive income, net   —   —   —   —   —   1,170   1,170   —   1,170 
Net income attributable to Vital 
Farms, Inc. stockholders   —   —   —   —   25,566   —   25,566   —   25,566 
Balances at December 31, 2023
 $ —   
41,684,64
9  $ 4  $ 163,325  $ 29,725  $ (377)  $ 192,677  $ —  $ 192,677 
Exercise of stock options   —   2,143,468   —   13,680   —   —   13,680   —   13,680 
Vesting of restricted stock units   —   255,570   —   —   —   —   —   —   — 
Shares withheld for tax liability on 
vested restricted stock units   —   (68,219)   —   (1,510)   —   —   (1,510)   —   (1,510)
Shares issued under employee stock 
purchase plan   —   26,887   —   419   —   —   419   —   419 
Stock-based compensation expense   —   —   —   10,268   —   —   10,268   —   10,268 
Other comprehensive income, net   —   —   —   —   —   380   380   —   380 
Net income attributable to Vital 
Farms, Inc. stockholders   —   —   —   —   53,388   —   53,388   —   53,388 
Balances at December 29, 2024
 $ —   
44,042,35
5  $ 4  $ 186,182  $ 83,113  $ 3  $ 269,302  $ —  $ 269,302 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 129/185

--- PAGE 130 ---
 
72
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Amounts in thousands)
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   
December 25,
2022  
Cash flows from operating activities:          
Net income  $ 53,388  $ 25,566  $ 1,230 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided 
by operating activities:          
Depreciation and amortization   13,093   7,925   5,441 
Reduction in the carrying amount of right-of-use assets   4,191   4,129   1,840 
Amortization of available-for-sale debt securities   110   348   711 
Amortization of debt issuance costs   60   —   — 
Stock-based compensation expense   10,268   7,417   6,040 
Uncertain tax positions   (82)  58   405 
Deferred taxes   (1,864)  (179)  227 
Net realized losses on derivative instruments   272   2,711   — 
Other   1,605   438   184 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:          
Accounts receivable   (14,785)   (862)   (13,858)
Inventories   8,930   (6,443)  (15,574)
Income taxes receivable   —   —   199 
Prepaid expenses and other current assets   (1,244)   (1,151)   (131)
Deposits and other assets   (3,755)  98   45 
Income taxes payable   (368)  782   425 
Accounts payable   5,810   6,671   2,352 
Accrued liabilities   6,749   5,157   3,843 
Operating lease liabilities   (17,554)  (1,759)  (1,477)
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities  $ 64,824  $ 50,906  $ (8,098)
Cash flows from investing activities:          
Purchases of property, plant and equipment   (28,646)  (11,538)  (10,468)
Purchases of leasehold improvements   —   —   (89)
Purchases of available-for-sale debt securities   —   (982)   (33,817)
Purchases of derivative instruments   (1,701)   (1,971)   — 
Sales of available-for-sale debt securities   —   2,895   — 
Settlements of derivative instruments   —   106   — 
Maturities and call redemptions of available-for-sale debt 
securities
 
 23,320 
 
 32,265 
 
 34,345 
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment   1   1,056   100 
Return of investment in variable interest entity   —   552   — 
Dissolution of equity investment   —   —   (108)
     Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities  $ (7,026) $ 22,383  $ (10,037)
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 130/185

--- PAGE 131 ---
 
73
VITAL FARMS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Amounts in thousands)
 
 
  Fiscal Year Ended  
  
December 29,
2024   
December 31,
2023   
December 25,
2022  
Cash flows from financing activities:          
Proceeds from borrowing under revolving line of credit   —   7,500   — 
Proceeds from exercise of stock options   13,680   692   675 
Proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock 
purchase plan   419   296   — 
Repayment of revolving line of credit   —   (7,500)  — 
Payment of tax withholding obligation on vested RSU shares   (1,510)  (796)  — 
Principal payments under finance lease obligations   (3,521)  (2,246)  (554)
Payment of financing costs   (414)  —   — 
Payment of contingent consideration   —   —   (38)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities  $ 8,654  $ (2,054) $ 83 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   66,452   71,235   (18,052)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period   84,149   12,914   30,966 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period  $ 150,601  $ 84,149  $ 12,914 
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:          
Cash paid for interest  $ 950  $ 775  $ 114 
Cash paid for income taxes  $ 16,578  $ 5,996  $ 99 
Supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing
   activities:
         
Purchases of property, plant and equipment included in accounts 
payable and accrued liabilities
 
$ 884  $ 187  $ 1,143 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 131/185

--- PAGE 132 ---
 
VITAL FARMS, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share amounts)
1. Nature of the Business and Basis of Presentation
Vital Farms, Inc. (the “Company”) was incorporated in Delaware on June 6, 2013 and is headquartered in Austin, Texas. The 
Company packages, markets and distributes shell eggs, butter and other products. These products are principally sold under the name 
Vital Farms in addition to other trade names, primarily to retail and foodservice channels in the United States.
Vital Farms of Missouri, LLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Vital Farms. All significant intercompany transactions and 
balances have been eliminated in the audited consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally 
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (“SEC”). 
Fiscal Year: The Company’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in December and contains either 52 or 53 weeks. Therefore, the 
financial results of certain 53-week fiscal years will not be exactly comparable to the prior and subsequent 52-week fiscal years. The 
audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 29, 2024 and December 25, 2022 contain operating 
results for 52 weeks, while the audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 contain operating 
results for 53 weeks.
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of 
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates principally 
include revenue recognition, determination of useful lives for property, plant and equipment, leases, variable consideration, goodwill, 
allowance for credit losses, inventory obsolescence, stock option valuations, accrued liabilities, income taxes and contingencies. Actual 
results could differ from those estimates.
Concentrations of Customers and Risk: A substantial amount of shell egg processing occurs at the Company’s Egg Central 
Station shell egg processing facility in Missouri. Any shutdown or period of reduced production at this facility, which may be caused 
by regulatory noncompliance or other issues, as well as factors beyond the Company’s control, such as natural disaster, weather, fire, 
power interruption, work stoppage, disease outbreaks or pandemics, equipment failure or maintenance or delay in raw materials 
delivery, would significantly disrupt the Company’s ability to deliver its products in a timely manner, meet contractual obligations and 
operate the business. 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash 
equivalents, investments, accounts receivable and derivative instruments. The Company maintains deposits with large financial 
institutions that the Company believes are of high credit quality. At times the Company’s cash and cash equivalents balances with 
individual banking institutions are in excess of federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses related to its cash 
and cash equivalents balances.
The Company's customer concentration for the periods presented were as follows:
 
  
Net 
Revenue 
Year 
Ended 
December 
29, 2024  
Net 
Revenue 
Year 
Ended 
December 
31, 2023  
Net 
Revenue 
Year 
Ended 
December 
25, 2022  
Accounts 
Receivable
, Net 
as of 
December 
29, 2024  
Accounts 
Receivable
, Net 
as of 
December 
31, 2023
Customer A  24%  25%  26%  16%  18%
Customer B  *  *  11%  10%  12%
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 132/185

--- PAGE 133 ---
74
Customer C  *  *  *  13%  11%
Customer D  *  *  *  10%  11%
* Denotes percentage less than 10%
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 133/185

--- PAGE 134 ---
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents: The Company considers all short-term, highly liquid investments purchased with an original 
maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash deposits are all in financial institutions in the 
United States. As of December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023, cash and cash equivalents consisted of cash on deposit with balances 
denominated in U.S. dollars and investments in money market funds.
Investment Securities: The Company accounts for its investment securities in accordance with ASC 320, Investments-Debt and 
Equity Securities. The Company considers all of its debt securities for which there is a determinable fair market value, and there are no 
restrictions on the Company’s ability to sell within the next 12 months, as available-for-sale. The Company classifies these securities as 
current, because the amounts invested are available for current operations. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value, with 
unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, recorded in other comprehensive income until the security is settled or sold, except for changes 
in allowance for any expected credit losses, which are reported on a gross basis in other expense.
The amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such 
amortization is recorded in interest income. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method with realized gains 
and losses on the sale of debt securities and declines in value due to credit-related factors, reclassified out of accumulated other 
comprehensive income when sold and recorded in other income. Income tax effects related to realized gains and losses on available-
for-sale securities are released from accumulated other comprehensive income quarterly with the recognition of the Company’s tax 
provision. Interest and dividends on securities classified as available-for-sale are recorded in interest income.
Variable Interest Entity: The Company consolidates all entities where a controlling financial interest exists. For fiscal 2022, the 
Company considered its relationship with Ovabrite, Inc., which was dissolved in September 2022, to determine whether the Company 
had a variable interest in that entity, and if so, whether the Company was the primary beneficiary of the relationship. GAAP requires 
variable interest entities (“VIEs”) to be consolidated if an entity’s interest in the VIE is a controlling financial interest. Under the 
variable model, a controlling financial interest is determined based on which entity, if any, has (i) the power to direct the activities of 
the VIE that most significantly impacts the VIE’s economic performance and (ii) the obligations to absorb losses that could potentially 
be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
Management performs ongoing reassessments of whether changes in the facts and circumstances regarding the Company’s 
involvement with a VIE will cause the consolidation conclusion to change. The consolidation status of a VIE may change as a result of 
such reassessments. Changes in consolidation status are applied prospectively in accordance with GAAP.
Segment Information: The Company operates and manages its business as one reportable and operating segment. The 
Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who is the chief operating decision maker, reviews financial information on an aggregate basis for 
purposes of evaluating financial performance and allocating resources. All of the Company’s long-lived assets and customers are 
located in the United States.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments: Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer 
a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The three levels of inputs that may be used to 
measure fair value are defined below:
• Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, such 
as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that 
are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or 
liabilities.
• Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity that are significant to 
determining the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including pricing models, discounted cash flow 
methodologies and similar techniques.
The carrying values of cash, trade receivables, other non-trade receivables within prepaid expenses and other current assets, 
accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities approximate their fair value due to the short-term nature of these assets 
and liabilities.
Accounts Receivable: Accounts receivable are stated at amounts due from customers net of any allowance for credit losses. The 
Company generally does not have collateral for its receivables, but the Company does periodically evaluate the creditworthiness of its 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 134/185

--- PAGE 135 ---
75
customers.
Allowance for Credit Losses: The allowance for expected credit losses related to trade receivables is estimated based on the 
trade receivable aging category, credit risk of specific customers, past collection history, and management’s evaluation of accounts 
receivable. The evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more 
information becomes available. The provision for expected credit losses is charged within selling, general and administrative costs. 
These losses have been immaterial to date. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 135/185

--- PAGE 136 ---
 
The allowance for expected credit losses related to other non-trade receivables are estimated based on the aging category and the 
probability of default. 
Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined under the weighted average cost method) or net realizable 
value. In addition to product cost, inventory costs include expenditures such as in-bound shipping and handling and warehousing costs 
incurred in bringing the inventory to its existing condition and location. Inventory includes eggs and egg-related products, butter and 
butter-related products, packaging, feed, laying hens, pullets, and equipment parts. A reduction in the carrying value of an inventory 
item from cost to net realizable value is recorded in cost of goods sold with the offset to inventory. Any inventory that does not meet 
the quality control standards of the Company is separated and written down to its net realizable value.
Derivative Financial Instruments: The Company uses derivative instruments as part of its risk management activities to reduce 
its exposure to commodity price risk. Business operations give rise to certain market exposures, mostly due to changes in commodity 
prices of corn and soybean meal. Credit risks associated with derivative contracts are not significant, as the Company minimizes 
counterparty exposure by dealing with creditworthy counterparties and collateralized insurers and by utilizing exchange traded 
instruments and insurance backed commodity settlement contracts. While the Company may be exposed to potential losses due to the 
credit risk of non-performance by these counterparties, losses are not anticipated. The Company does not hold derivative instruments 
for trading purposes. Additionally, the Company’s derivative contracts are short-term in duration and do not make use of credit-risk-
related contingent features.
Derivatives used to manage commodity price risk are not designated for hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the changes in 
fair value of these derivatives are recorded as incurred within other expense, net. Net realized gains and losses on derivative 
instruments are reported as a reconciling item from net income to cash from operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash 
flows. Cash flows related to settlements and purchases of derivative instruments are reported as investing activities within the 
consolidated statements of cash flows.  
Property, Plant and Equipment: Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and 
amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives. The general 
range of useful lives of other property, plant and equipment is as follows:
   
   Estimated Useful Life
Land   N/A
Land improvements  15 to 20 years
Buildings and improvements   15 to 39 years
Vehicles   5 years
Machinery and equipment   2 to 7 years
Furniture and fixtures   5 years
Leasehold improvements   Lesser of lease term or 7 years
When assets are sold or retired, the cost and related accumulated depreciation or amortization of assets disposed of are removed 
from the accounts, with any resulting gain or loss recorded in operations in the consolidated statements of income. Normal repairs and 
maintenance costs are expensed as incurred to operations.
Goodwill: Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired 
in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually on the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter 
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. The Company’s goodwill impairment 
test is performed at the enterprise level given the single reporting unit.
The Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether events or circumstances existed that would lead the 
Company to conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount. If the 
Company determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below the carrying amount based on 
qualitative factors or if significant changes to macro-economic factors related to the reporting unit have occurred that could materially 
impact fair value, a quantitative goodwill assessment would be required. In the quantitative evaluation, the fair value of the reporting 
unit is determined and compared to the carrying value. If the fair value is greater than the carrying value, then the carrying value is 
deemed to be recoverable and no further action is required. If the fair value estimate is less than the carrying value, goodwill is 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 136/185

--- PAGE 137 ---
76
considered impaired for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value and a charge is reported as 
impairment of goodwill in the consolidated statements of income. To date, the Company has not recorded any impairment charges 
associated with its goodwill.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 137/185

--- PAGE 138 ---
 
Cloud Computing Arrangements: The Company incurs costs to implement cloud computing arrangements hosted by third 
party vendors. Costs incurred to implement cloud computing service arrangements are capitalized when incurred during the application 
development phase and recognized as other current assets and other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. Amortization 
of the cloud computing arrangement implementation costs will begin once the software is placed in service. 
Leases: The Company determines if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception, which is the date on which the terms of 
the contract are agreed to and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. Under ASC 842, Leases (“Topic 842”), a 
contract is or contains a lease when (i) explicitly or implicitly identified assets have been deployed in the contract and (ii) the customer 
obtains substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of that underlying asset and directs how and for what purpose the asset is 
used during the term of the contract. The Company also considers whether its service arrangements include the right to control the use 
of an asset.
The Company has made an accounting policy election not to recognize right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for leases 
with a term of 12 months or less. For all other leases, the Company recognizes ROU assets and lease liabilities based on the present 
value of lease payments over the lease term at the commencement date of the lease. The Company’s recognized ROU assets also 
include any initial direct costs incurred and lease payments made at or before the commencement date, which are reduced by any lease 
incentives.
Future lease payments may include fixed rent escalation clauses or payments that depend on an index (such as the Consumer 
Price Index measured by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics). Subsequent index changes and other periodic market-rate adjustments to 
base rent are recorded as variable lease expense during the period in which they are incurred. Residual value guarantees or payments 
for terminating the lease are included in the lease payments only when it is probable they will be incurred.
The Company has made an accounting policy election to account for lease and non-lease components in its contracts as a single 
lease component for all asset classes. The non-lease components typically represent additional services transferred to the Company, 
such as common area maintenance for real estate, which are variable in nature and recorded in variable lease expense in the period 
incurred.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: The Company reviews the carrying value of property, plant and equipment for impairment 
whenever events and circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable from the estimated undiscounted 
future cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. In cases where undiscounted expected future cash flows are 
less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to an amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of 
assets. The factors considered by management in performing this assessment include current operating results, trends and prospects and 
the effects of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors. The Company did not recognize an impairment loss 
during the fiscal years ended December 29, 2024, December 31, 2023 and December 25, 2022.
Noncontrolling Interest: The Company recognizes noncontrolling interest related to VIEs in which the Company is the primary 
beneficiary, as equity in the consolidated financial statements separate from the parent entity’s equity. The amount of net income or 
loss attributable to noncontrolling interests is included in consolidated net income on the face of the consolidated statements of income. 
Changes in the parent entity’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation are treated as equity transactions 
if the parent entity retains its controlling financial interest. In addition, when a subsidiary is deconsolidated, any retained noncontrolling 
equity investment in the former subsidiary will be initially measured at fair value and the difference between the carrying value and fair 
value of the retained interest will be recorded as a gain or loss. Affiliate equity interests where the Company has certain rights to 
demand settlement are presented at their current redemption values, as redeemable noncontrolling interest in the consolidated balance 
sheet. Because these transactions take place between entities under common control, any gains or losses attributable to these 
transactions are required to be included within additional paid-in-capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
Income Taxes: Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax 
assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the consolidated financial 
statements. In estimating future tax consequences, the Company considers all expected future events other than enactment of changes 
in tax laws or rates. A valuation allowance is recorded, if necessary, to reduce net deferred tax assets to their realizable values if 
management does not believe it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized.
The Company recognizes the benefit of an income tax position only if it is more likely than not (greater than 50%) that the tax 
position will be sustained upon tax examination, based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. Otherwise, no benefit can be 
recognized. Assessing an uncertain tax position begins with the initial determination of the sustainability of the position and is 
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 138/185

--- PAGE 139 ---
77
measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. As of each balance 
sheet date, unresolved uncertain tax positions must be reassessed. Additionally, the Company must accrue interest and related penalties, 
if applicable, on all tax exposures for which reserves have been established consistent with jurisdictional tax laws.
The Company’s policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the provision for income taxes. 
As of December 29, 2024 and December 31, 2023 the Company had accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions of 
$157 and $171.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 139/185

--- PAGE 140 ---
 
Net Income per Share Attributable to Vital Farms, Inc. Common Stockholders: The Company applies the two-class method 
to compute basic and diluted net income per share attributable to the Company’s common stockholders when shares meet the definition 
of participating securities. The two-class method determines net income per share for each class of the Company’s common stock and 
preferred stock according to dividends declared or accumulated and participation rights in undistributed earnings. The two-class 
method requires income available to common stockholders for the period to be allocated between the Company’s common stock and 
preferred stock based upon their respective rights to share in the earnings as if all income for the period had been distributed. During 
periods of loss, there is no allocation required under the two-class method since the preferred stock does not have a contractual 
obligation to share in the Company’s losses.
Basic net income per share attributable to the Company’s stockholders is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-
average number of shares outstanding during the period without consideration of potentially dilutive common stock. Diluted net 
income per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue shares of the Company’s 
common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the 
earnings of the Company unless inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive. For periods in which the Company reports net losses, 
diluted net loss per common share attributable to the Company’s common stockholders is the same as basic net loss, because 
potentially dilutive common shares are not assumed to have been issued if their effect is anti-dilutive.
Revenue Recognition: The Company generates revenue primarily through sales of products to its customers, which include 
natural channel retailers, mainstream channel retailers, distributors and foodservice customers. The Company sells its products to 
customers on a purchase-order basis.
Revenue is recognized when control of the product is transferred to the customer and the related performance obligation is 
satisfied, which typically occurs upon delivery of the product to the customer, for an amount that reflects the net consideration the 
Company expects to receive in exchange for delivering the product. The Company offers sales incentives through various programs to 
customers and allow deductions from its customers, which may include credits or discounts to customers in the event that products do 
not conform to customer specifications or expire at a customer’s site. The cost associated with variable consideration is estimated and 
recorded as a reduction in revenue and is recognized at the time the related revenue is recorded, which normally precedes the actual 
cash expenditure. The recognition of this cost therefore requires management judgment regarding the volume of promotional offers that 
will be redeemed. Differences between estimated cost and actual redemptions are recognized as a change in management estimate in a 
subsequent period.
In many cases, key sales terms such as pricing and quantities ordered are established on a regular basis such that most customer 
arrangements and related incentives have a duration of less than one year. Amounts billed and due from customers are short-term in 
nature and are classified as receivables since payments are unconditional and only the passage of time is required before payments are 
due.
Shipping and Distribution: The Company’s shipping and distribution costs include costs incurred with third-party carriers to 
transport products to customers and salaries and overhead costs related to activities to prepare the Company’s products for shipment. 
Shipping and distribution costs were $32,435, $27,344, and $30,104 during the fiscal years ended December 29, 2024, December 31, 
2023, and December 25, 2022, respectively. Freight-in costs are included within cost of goods sold and were $3,526, $4,823, and 
$9,610 during the fiscal years ended December 29, 2024, December 31, 2023, and December 25, 2022, respectively.
Stock-Based Compensation: The Company measures all stock-based awards granted to employees and directors based on the 
estimated fair value on the date of the grant and recognizes compensation expense for those awards, over the requisite service period, 
which is generally the vesting period of the respective award. Stock options generally vest ratably over three years from the date of 
grant and expire 10 years from the date of grant. Restricted stock awards generally vest ratably over three years from the date of grant 
and contain no other service or performance conditions. Performance stock awards vest at the end of a three-year period dependent 
upon the level of achievement of certain Company performance metrics and the recipient’s continued service over such period. The 
Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service or vesting period. Forfeitures 
for stock options and restricted stock awards are recognized as they occur. The fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the 
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing valuation model, which requires inputs based on certain subjective assumptions, 
including the fair market value of the Company’s common stock, expected stock price volatility, the expected term of the option, the 
risk-free interest rate for a period that approximates the expected term of the option, and the Company’s expected dividend yield. The 
Company classifies stock-based compensation expense in its consolidated statements of income in the same manner in which the award 
recipient’s payroll costs are classified or in which the award recipient’s service payments are classified.
1/5/26, 9:48 PM 10-K
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1579733/000095017025028365/vitl-20241229.htm 140/185
